this course is an excellent introduction
to apis for beginners this is an updated
version of what is already one of the
most popular API courses on the internet
Craig Dennis is back as the instructor
and in my opinion he is one of the best
developer Educators out there hello I'm
Craig and I'm a developer in this course
we're going to be exploring a term that
you've probably heard quite a bit that
term is API or application programming
interface in addition to being able to
recite what it stands for when you
complete this course you'll be able to
discuss what an API does you'll
understand why they exist and you'll be
able to list the many benefits that they
provide you'll even get some hands-on
experience using a few popular web apis
which will give you a taste of what all
this excitement is about we'll be
starting from the very beginning so
there really isn't too much I'm going to
be expecting you to know before starting
this course I would like to request that
you have a touch of experience with
coding and a we bit of knowledge about
the web if you've written any program at
all even the typical first program you
know the one where you write the words
hello world if you've done that in any
programming language you'll pretty much
be ready for this course it will be
helpful if you have a basic
understanding of how the web works with
web servers and browsers but don't sweat
it we'll touch on that too now if you
haven't met these requirements please
check the notes attached to this video
for where to get started with some
beginning web and programming Concepts
that reminds me you should take some
time to get used to your learning
environment the notes that I just just
discussed are attached to this video and
I'll also drop more information into
that section to keep you updated on what
might have changed from my right now to
your right now and I I'll do my best to
remind you to look in there when there's
something I think you just have to see
but you really should get in the habit
of checking that area out there'll be
tons of Juicy information
there you might be getting a real bad
case of deja vu right now this is a
refresh of a course from 2019 which
these days seems like about 30 years ago
or something if if you saw that version
welcome back technology is constantly
evolving and just updating the notes
wasn't cutting it so this is version two
thanks for all the feedback by the way a
lot of yours and your fellow learner
suggestions are implemented in this new
updated version all that to say we got
you these videos have captions so if you
feel like you might benefit from having
those on please use them this space is
all yours if you want me to speak slower
please use the speed controllers to slow
me down and if I'm taking a long time
speed me up I make a pretty good
chipmunk and last but certainly not
least take advantage of the fact that
you are in a video-based course if you
need me to repeat myself use the video
controls to rewind me if you feel like
you need to take a break to let
something and seek in by all means
please pause me I'll be right here
waiting for you I know that I've gotten
into some pretty bad viewing habits with
all the streaming media now while
binging might be a great way to consume
an entire season of your favorite show
it's not the best way to learn something
new education isn't meant to be binged
and because of this I'll probably remind
you quite a bit to take breaks and
encourage you to let what you just
learned marinate all right let's get to
it a p those three little letters
generate quite the buzz don't they first
I'd like to take some time up front here
and clearly break down what is meant by
application programming interface by
understanding its purpose and a touch of
its history I think you'll start to see
its importance and be begin to
understand why this term keeps popping
up in your life after we get a good
grasp on the what and the why of apis
we'll go and learn how to explore two
existing ones we'll get familiar with
several handy tools that you can use to
interact with web-based apis we'll use
those tools to hit an external web API
to send actual text messages and we'll
get some interesting data back from a
streaming music service API once we get
some practice using the apis we'll use
them in a web application that you'll
actually publish the application that
we're going to be building is going to
receive User submitted photos via a text
message and then we'll use an API to
display a collection of all these photos
and you get to come up with the prompt
send me the latest photo on your phone
dog pics please what's for dinner what
whatever you want I can't wait to see
what you build and what your family and
friends submit to it we're going to be
strictly using apis in this course we
won't be writing our own while you most
likely are going to end up learning some
best practices in ABI design we won't be
covering that specifically there there
are many great courses available that
show The Creation thought process and
I've linked to some of my faves in the
notes attached to this video in my
opinion the best way to start learning
about any acronym is to focus on each
individual letter for a pi I I think we
should start on that last character the
ey interface let's talk a bit about the
interfaces that you've seen
already interfaces are all around us for
instance this radio here it has a
familiar interface the interface allows
me to do things like change the volume
change the station I can turn it off and
on I literally have no idea how anything
inside this thing works but still the
interface allows me to control the way
that it works through the options that
are exposed and that's pretty great
isn't it the magic that is happening is
completely abstracted away from me I'm
still in control of what has been
determined that I a user can handle
interfaces usually evolve over time like
an alarm clock radio for example it has
my familiar volume and station controls
and it also adds some new features like
changing the time and setting the alarm
I still have no idea how this works
implementation wise but the interface is
something that I can understand
usually and as technology evolves and
new options come into existence they
make their way into the new versions of
the interface still abstracting away
things for us but enabling us to be in
control of the new features sometimes
these physical interfaces get so
recognizable they even make it into goys
hey did you hear that there it is again
gooey GUI graphical user interface this
is my streaming music app on my phone
there's my familiar play button in the
user interface or UI and I know what the
play button does when I press it but I
have no idea how it does it and I'm okay
with that level of abstraction what
would I do in public transit without
music like talk to people hi how's it
going now the developer who wrote this
streaming music of course understands
how the play button Works she coded the
button so that when it gets clicked the
music starts playing here's the thing
though our developer is also working
with quite a few interfaces that are
abstracting way some of the details for
her for instance she wrote code that
happens when the button is clicked she
probably did that using an event handler
on the button like on click what she
didn't have to do however was write the
code that makes the button interact and
change with a press she didn't have to
write the code that makes that familiar
clicking noise it was already there for
her buttons are in fact an interface
they provide the developer the means of
controlling its interactions while
abstracting away how that actually works
implementation wise this button is part
of the API or application programming
interface and it's available from the
application framework that was used to
create the app because most apps need
buttons this interface has been created
and provided to our developer or
application programmer to use by
implementing the button interface our
developer was able to make her code run
when the button was clicked it's worth
noting that the code probably also uses
a media player API that is provided with
the operating system of the device like
Android or iOS this media player API
abstracts away needing to understand
details of how to send audio data to
Hardware the developer knows they just
want to call the play Method on the
media player
API I suppose too the song isn't stored
on the device it's being streamed over
the network so a web-based API call has
been made over the internet to get that
data it's actually apis all the way down
to the ones and zeros providing
abstractions at many levels so let's
take a look at what all of these
interfaces have in common they all
Define ways for us to interact or
communicate with an object whether that
object be physical or software and as a
user of the interface we don't need to
understand the implementation we don't
need to know how it works we just need
to know what we've been allowed to
change or see interfaces abstract away
the implementation now while the UI or
user interface is made for the user of
the application the API is made for the
application programmer to use and extend
in their applications with the I covered
in our API let's take a deeper look at
the rest of the API
acronym an API is a contract of sorts it
defines how it is expected to be used
and it defines what you can expect to
receive by using it think of it as a set
of tools designed for software
developers like yourself to use an API
is created to help make your life easier
by giving you access to data and by
providing you with an abstraction of the
implementation you know not needing to
know how it's doing whatever it's doing
they save you from needing to create
everything yourself like when designed
well they make nearly impossible things
happen with just a few lines of code now
you're probably starting to see why it's
important to get familiar with them
right I want to do a quick word of
warning here about some naming issues
that you'll probably run into these days
the term API is almost always used as a
way to explain web-based apis in fact
it's probably safe to assume that when
you hear API in the wild it's most
likely that people are talking about a
web- based API we'll explore those here
in a few however if we focus on all
types of apis instead of just the
webbased subset we'll get a better look
into why web-based apis are so popular
so hang tight we're getting there apis
are everywhere in your software Journey
just about everywhere you look your your
programming language whichever one that
might be provides many apis let's take a
look at one that is common in all of
them they all provide some way of
working with strings you know like a
series of characters want to make your
text all uppercase just call the API
method and voila you could probably
create the uppercase string all by
yourself by doing some sort of lowlevel
bit math on each character but you don't
need to because your programming
language has abstracted a way that for
you and provided a handy string API it
exists this because this is a common
enough problem that developers run into
because these programming language
specifications are just interfaces
different operating systems can supply
their own implementation so that the
code works properly in their environment
I think an easy way of picturing this is
to think about how different operating
systems like Windows or Mac OS maintain
their files they're totally different
yet your programming language provides a
single API for working with the file
system you can write one script and it
works both in math
and windows it's the implementation that
takes care of all of the details for you
pretty cool right definitely something
to be thankful for it makes their lives
so much easier not having to worry about
what operating system is being used and
the importance of an API tool language
cannot be understated there have been
some fascinating legal cases where it's
been questioned if the language API
itself again not the implementation can
be copyrighted check out the notes for
more on that along similar lines there
are different web browsers you know like
Google Chrome Microsoft Edge Safari
Firefox Brave now you might not have
pondered this before but isn't it
amazing that you can write code for the
web and it will work in any of them this
works because there's a set of web apis
that web browsers all must Implement in
order to make that magic happen for you
we're standing on the shoulders of
giants folks and we really should thank
those giants more often there are
authors and maintainers of libraries
that package up code to solve common
problems so that you don't need to do it
yourself for instance do you know know
how to programmatically make a photo
black and white me neither but I can
download and import an image package
into my application and suddenly I can I
just call a method and boom I wish real
life skills work this way I'd import
dancing so it could be more fun at
weddings chaa cha Frameworks provide an
API that allow you to extend what has
been provided to make it your own like
for example most web Frameworks provide
you with the ability to add a new route
to your web application it allows you to
write out Dynamic data to a template
that you specified and you do all of
this with just a handful of lines of
code you don't need to understand how
it's doing things but you do need to
know how to write an implementation to
what the framework is expecting in this
case you're using the API the contract
to write a valid implementation that
meets the requirements now all these
apis that we just talked about they're
local to our codebase they exist within
our code we use them to avoid recreating
the wheel that is to say they assist us
in accomplishing tasks that we need to
perform by abstracting away a ton of the
work for us the stuff that we developers
shouldn't be worrying about we should be
focusing on the business problem at hand
and that means a big part of your job is
figuring out how to leverage these apis
to your advantage now I think this is an
excellent time for you to take a break I
just gave you a lot to think about and
I'd like you to take some time and
breathe why don't you jot down some apis
that you've used today even if you
weren't coding I know that you've seen
some in action if you're having a hard
time thinking of some I'll give you a
hint you're watching a video right now
inside of a web browser when we return
we'll explore the concept of remote apis
ones that aren't executing locally in
our codebase and why that is such a
powerful concept
[Music]
it took me a while to find this remote
control it was in the couch it's always
on the couch anyways this remote has an
interface on it right there's a power
button and when I press the channel
button it changes the channel when I
press the volume button it sends the
request to my radio and the volume
changes as if I turn the volume up using
the interface on the device itself and
we know why that's important I want to
remotely control my device I don't want
to get up from my chair there are of
course more less lazy reasons as to why
we'd want to remote Ely control objects
this cute little robot for instance has
a remote API you can send commands to it
and it responds and it even sends back
sensor information these traffic signs
can change based on an API call this
drone here is remotely controlled by an
app on my phone
see and it's not just physical objects
that benefit from remote apis often
times we don't have space on our local
machines for all the data that's
available like for example have you ever
used use one of those apps that helps
you figure out what song is playing you
send up a snippet of a song that you
heard playing at a grocery store using
your microphone and it sends back
exactly what song it is it's usually
Phil cins it turns out that both grocery
stores and yours truly love Phil Colin
you don't have room for all the songs in
the world on your phone and with this
remote API you don't need to have all of
them it does all the searching and
processing and it's surprisingly quick
how can it possibly do that I don't know
but I love the interface it's so fast
ooh that's another benefit of remote
apis computational power because an API
removes the limitations of your local
device you can gain access to seemingly
infinite amounts of power a good example
of this is the AR app of Google
translate you can use the camera on your
phone and in near real time it's able to
translate directly to your screen like
instantaneously it's using a ton of
processing power to make that magic
happen and that processing is happening
elsewhere in L Nu it took quite a bit of
experimentation and some evolution of
ideas but over time we finally turned
this remote API dream into a reality now
I'm going to drop some history into the
teacher notes but I just want you to
know that the struggle to achieve this
concept of remote apis was very real now
most of the problem was that there
wasn't a standard that everyone loved
things were pretty clunky for a while as
these ideas were sused out but then it
happened a new architectural style
appeared that was clear and allowed us
developers to interact with specific
resources over the web and it quite
literally changed everything this style
rapidly emerged as a winner and just
about everyone began offering and
consuming external apis over the
internet and what I'm talking about here
is rest or representational state
transfer it was the approach that we
needed and honestly it's the abstraction
that we developers deserve like we
talked about already the popularity of
rest spread so rapidly that it nearly
completely overtook the term API it's
like how we use the word Xerox to mean
photocopy even though Xerox is just a
brand of photocopier Xerox does other
stuff too I think that's how pervasive
rest is rest is for sure not the end all
be all of remote apis there are
definitely some limitations which we'll
discuss here in a bit technolog is ever
evolving and of course there's movements
that are still advancing the concept of
the best remote apis some terms you
might even have heard like graphql more
on this in the teacher notes now for the
rest of this course we're going to do a
deep dive into apis that are written
using the rest style when apis embrace
the style and constraints of rest they
are said to be restful cute right if you
feel like you need a little rest go
ahead and pause me before we do a deeper
dive into what it means to be restful
sorry that was a bad and obvious joke
but as a developer you kind of have to
make it you don't really have an option
because rest sits on top of web
Technologies like a really nice hat we
should probably do a whirlwind refresher
of how the web
[Music]
works it might have been a while since
you thought about how the web works
there are a smattering of terms that I'd
like to reload into your working memory
before we talk more about how rest uses
them
so let's use the web I've got my
computer here and on it is an internet
browser the browser is a web client and
I'm going to use it to connect to a
server I'm going to do this by putting a
location in the address bar a universal
resource locator or URL to be exact you
might also hear this referred to by its
suet term URI Universal resource
identifier now our URL here has a scheme
portion and this one happens to be h TTP
HTTP stands for hypertext transfer
protocol let's break that down a bit
let's grab that last part protocol a
protocol is also often liken to a
contract it's a little lower level than
an API but it's similar in concept you
can think of it as defining the
expectations of how to communicate like
an example that I think really sticks
with me is if you've ever been to a
rally and someone does one of those
chants where they're like when I say Foo
you say bar Foo bar one of those those
here let's do one when I say HTT you say
p HTT HTT oh I just realized I might
have made you yell pee out loud hope you
aren't in a coffee shop
awkward anyways we you and I just set up
a real quick protocol I told you how to
respond to my specific request and you
would have been breaking our agreed upon
protocol if you yelled anything else but
P so the browser creates an HTTP request
for you along with the URI it also
specifies a particular HTTP verb in this
case it is using the get verb which is
used to clarify that this request will
only receive data that is it won't be
making any changes the server receives
the request that was transferred from
the client there's that second T the
server then does the work that it needs
to do finally it generates the resulting
webpage and sends back a response to the
client my browser in this case the most
important part of the response is the
body for a web page that contains the
HTML hypertext markup language which
gives us the remaining parts the HT of
our acronym hypertext is text that can
link to other text in HTML we perform
that linking with anchor tags so with
that response the browser renders the
page when one of those links are clicked
they kick off a brand new HTTP get
request and the process repeats itself
over and over in between those clicks
though the protocol's done we've made
the request we got the response HTTP as
it was originally designed designed is a
stateless protocol once that request
receives a response it's all done if you
want to keep some sort of State your
client will have to manage that itself
and send it up with each new request
check out the notes for more on this
there are more HTTP verbs also known as
request methods besides get most common
scenario you see is when you encounter a
form that is used to take information
from you typically you'll see the verb
post used to explain that you are
submitting or posting data to the Sur
okay so our protocol that's used to
transfer this hypertext is admittedly a
little more complex than our rally chant
was there's quite a bit of important
information in there that is included in
the request and the response you've
probably seen query string parameters
and URLs and you know the stuff after
the question mark this is one way to
pass information about the request
another common way this information is
passed around is through specific key
and value pairs called headers both
requests and responses have headers and
they're used to help further communicate
what is wanted as well as what has been
sent back some of the popular request
headers allow you to specify information
about the content that you expect back
like the language or the type of content
you can also state that you want the
page if it has changed since a certain
time this technique allows for caching
which is a powerful concept why get the
whole page if you already have it in
your local cach you can embed
authentication information in each
request using a header and this way
you're essentially keeping your client
logged in across requests this response
also contains headers a super important
one is the status code this lets you
know what happened on the server side
and can convey things like missing
documents I'm sure you've seen the old
404 or maybe the page has moved but
hopefully everything is a 200 okay it
can also explain the content type how
large the data returned is and many more
things okay got it are you feeling good
about that little Whirlwind tour
remember feel free to make me repeat
myself if that was too much I totally
get it that was a lot of information
it's important to have a basic
understanding of these things because
rest sits on top of them it uses the
concepts that were introduced with the
web to expose resources that can be
accessed and manipulated let's take a
look at how the restful approach takes
advantage of the web and its tooling for
your benefit
profit rest stands for representational
State transfer apis that meet the rest
architectural style constraints are
considered to be restful now a typical
way to teach about restful apis is to
cover the constraints that Define it all
up front now I don't know about you but
personally I find approaching learning
that way pretty overwhelming especially
from the beginning I mean we haven't
even looked at an API yet on top of that
most of the rest apis that you'll use
will meet all of these constraints so
here's the thing I promise that we'll go
over all the constraints but let's do it
on our own time like don't learn them
all right this instant we could even
make it a fun Journey like a restful
constraint scavenger hunt complete with
prizes void where prohibited here are
the guiding architectural constraints
required for an API to be considered
restful we'll check them off when we
discuss them and then we'll loop back
once more at the end to review got to
collect them all sound fun good let's
get started talking about how rest API
sits on top of web technology like a
little hat much like the web the client
makes a request to a server the client
in this case is typically going to be
your program and you'll probably be
using some sort of library to create the
request to the server the protocol used
you guessed it it's HTTP and it's
stateless the server won't remember
anything about the particular client if
you want to maintain State like your
login details you must send it with each
and every request you'll do this using
headers and just like that we talked
about two of our rest constraints client
server architecture and stateless you
got two knocked off already you're on a
roll now we should probably talk about
what that request was requesting right
well it most certainly was requesting
information about a resource now a
resource is a little abstract and that's
intentional it's the r in the URL or URI
we use the term resource to reference an
object also happens to be pretty
abstract right and this is because we
can use resources to describe just about
anything that we build for instance
let's imagine an ebook store website on
the homepage there's a list or
collection of new books each of these
books is a resource we click in to take
a closer look at that book resource and
we see a link to the author which is
also a resource we click into the author
resource and we see a collection of all
the other books they've written maybe we
even see a group of fans again another
collection and each of those fans are a
resource clicking into a and resource we
see a collection of their favorite
authors in books everything is a
resource let's change gears how about an
image sharing application on your phone
so we have user resources and those
users post photos which are resources
and those photos can be loved so there's
a lover resource maybe there's an album
that could be created there's an album
resource that contains photos and albums
have a collection of contributor
resources turns out almost everything we
ever want to build can be expressed in
terms of resources and
collections most of what we want our
applications to be able to do to the
resources can be expressed through the
unfortunate sounding acronym crud and
that stands for creating reading
updating and deleting now as a user of
the ebook site all we did was a bunch of
reading no pun
intended I actually did intend that one
we were reading right just getting
information to display it like we
retrieved the author page we made a read
request the web browser used a get
request to the specific author page the
restful API follows the same logic your
program sends a get request to a URI
then the server responds with data and
of course all the HTTP headers you've
come to know and love the body is
typically represented these days as Json
or JavaScript object notation Json
provides a great way to structure and
Nest your data every programming
language that I can think of provides
some means of turning a Json string into
a native object the content type is
typically something that you can specify
in your request if Json isn't your thing
if you recall there are other HTTP verbs
available these verbs are used in rest
apis to clearly State the intention of
your request want to add an author post
to the SL author's endpoint and send the
data that you want to update in the body
of your request now these fields will be
defined for you somewhere want to remove
an author send a delete to that specific
author resource updates typically
support the patch verb and you'll see
we're able to represent our crud needs
the create request update and delete
using HTTP methods pretty cool right
what this means is that you can interact
with any application out there that's
exposed their rest API you could grab
data remotely automate tasks and even
smos together different services this is
called a mashup and here's the thing
there are a ton of apis available just
about anything that you could imagine
and if they're truly restful they'll all
feel pretty much the same you can build
anything there are services that allow
you to do incredible things with just a
few simple API calls so now the question
becomes what are you going to build so
why don't you take a quick break and
when you come back let's explore a
restful API together we'll take a peek
at how to use the music streaming
service Spotify and their excellent
restful API
you have some Newfound understanding of
how web-based apis work I walked you
quickly through some imaginary rest apis
and now I'm thinking it's time that we
get a little more specific why don't we
go exploring together some of these rest
apis allow you to give it a try from the
comfort of your very own web browser one
of my personal favorites that allows for
exploration is the streaming music
service Spotify so here I am at
spotify.com and now a quick word of
warning it is going to look different I
guarantee you this site is going to look
different because they're always making
things better for us for us Spotify
users us lovers of music and as as well
us developers so uh I want you to try
this when you go to a site any site that
you want to you'll see here that this is
really nice Spotify is letting us kind
of test out what it feels like in in the
web on the web page but if I scroll down
to the bottom
it's typically where they hide nerdy
stuff now I knew this was here but if I
didn't I would look around for something
like this this developers and I'm going
to click into here oh I cannot tell you
how good it feels as a developer to end
up in a place where it feels like you're
being taken care of right this is so
nice this Spotify uh for developers it
looks like it was thoughtful uh and I
can tell you that it is very nice it's a
very nice tool um we can scroll down you
can see all sorts of stuff they give you
some examples of what you might want to
do right what what could you build with
this uh so you could find out like uh uh
different things like you could use an
API to see uh uh the beats and the
sections and the bars I think that
there's a way to figure out if a song is
dancable or not so that maybe I could
import dancing we'll see and if I scroll
back up to the top here you'll see that
there's these different headings we've
got this discover I think this is great
if you're going to explore things we
have this docs you'll see that there's
all types of different uh actually apis
and sdks software development kits which
are apis which allow you to do different
things you'll see that there's ones for
iOS there's ones for Android what we're
going to be focusing on is the one for
the web API so if I click into that
we'll get a nice overview of what this
is I'm going to blow this up just a
little bit uh so you'll see based on
some simple rest representational State
transfer principles that's our uh that's
what we're doing that's what we're going
through we're going through our um our
scavenger hunt we're going through that
there's a Spotify web API that returns
Json JavaScript object notation about
music artists albums and tracks right so
that's awesome that's great uh so we can
see all sorts of different stuff it uh
it opens up at this api. spotify.com is
a specific URL and then it has a set of
endpoints with it each unique path right
each of those URLs that we were looking
at
before there is a way to get um specific
data so you could do this thing for you
where you authorize so I could uh I
could be a user you could see what I
recently listened to I could have a
playlist I could add to it but in order
to do that you need to have uh
authorization to be able to do that you
don't want to be able to just add to
anybody's playlist right so um there is
some authorization that's available and
uh we're not going to do anything that
requires that here so uh if you keep on
looking down here you'll see that
there's uh it's it's based on those rest
principles um and uh you'll see that it
does a get to retrieve resources right
and there's the post to create resources
and resources here are uh songs and
artists and tracks maybe maybe the
resource you're creating here is one of
those playlists that we talked about uh
you can change using a put and a delete
we delete the resource so awesome right
so it's using rest uh like we saw you'll
see that Spotify uses this URI uh style
so it's a Spotify track and then uh it
has this unique ID this Spotify ID this
will make more sense as we we uh uh dig
into it a little bit more uh and then
you'll see that there's always this uh
uh spot ify URL that allows you uh to
see what it was and will show you this
um as well as we said uh the responses
come back and they are a Json object uh
and we're going to be looking here at a
tool uh in in the future called curl
which you can use from your command line
that's what this dollar sign here is
talking about I I'll show you all this
but basically it's saying that there's a
lot of artists that come back you don't
want all the artists and it will come
back paginated uh and of course um you
can use caching we'll take a look at
that here you can you can and uh see if
uh the thing has changed or not so we'll
take a look at that and basically the
response that comes back if everything's
good it's going to say a 200 or these
these 200 level uh accounts and then
there's uh bad requests so if uh if you
ask wrong or maybe maybe it wasn't found
that's the 404 or unauthorized if we try
to do one of those playlists uh we'd get
it unauthorized and there's also if if
you're a developer uh you never want to
see this one it's the 500 it means you
made an error um uh on the server side
uh we won't be we' be doing any of those
because we're just going to be hitting
somebody else's code cool all right so
um Spotify offers the ability to uh you
can look at this and you can build your
own curl request but one of the really
nice things that I love about their API
and uh you'll you'll find this happens
often if we scroll back up here to the
top sorry if I'm making you sick there
and we're going to jump in here to uh
what's known as the
console over on the left are the things
that we can do with their API and one of
the things I want to do first first is I
want to
search you can see it's making a get to
the search endpoint so I'm going to go
into there and what's really nice is
it's set it up so that we can kind of
build the query that we're looking for
so now we need to decide what we're
going to do I think probably the first
uh person that I would ever search for
the first artist I would search for uh
and you can see that here it's showing
the different values of what that is I
would I would probably search for
Beyonce I mean right wouldn't you and I
could choose is that a track or an
artist so the type there is important
and if I type artist uh you'll see that
what's happening is you'll see the curl
here is changing it's changing the it
says the que is the Beyonce so that's
one of the parameters that we're passing
into the API and artist is here and you
can see there's different uh things that
we could do here what's really important
is that it needs to have this ooth token
now what's nice is we can build one of
those even if we don't have a Spotify
account so I'm going to do that I'm
going to click this get token I am not
currently logged in um and I actually
don't have a Spotify account yet in this
uh in this user I do have a Spotify
account I love Spotify um and this is
asking um basically what you would do is
you would create a specific ooth token
if you were ever to use this API outside
of where we're doing this right now you
would you would create one of these
tokens so that you could log in uh later
and you say what it is that you want so
here's the playlist right we don't we're
not going to do any of the playlist
stuff we're just going to do a search
maybe we'll look up some of Beyonce's uh
Tunes but so I'm going to go and I'm
going to click this request token so now
it's asking me to either log in with my
Spotify account which I can or I can
create a new one and let's walk through
that just in case you don't have a
Spotify account already let's create a
new one and this will be a my uh
developer account here um uh so I'm
going to put in my email so my email uh
I don't know if you know about this but
uh if you use Gmail you can uh uh you
can do a little plus sign and it will
still send to the left side of your
Gmail so uh I'm going to do uh at
Spotify sign up and uh that way any
emails I get from here it will have that
and it's a kind of a way to let you have
multiple accounts thing so again uh my
my Gmail is Craigs Dennis gmail.com but
I'm going to do uh Spotify
signup gmail.com and it will go to my
Gmail it will just kind of ignore this
Gmail does that for you it's pretty nice
right so I'm going to put in the same
password as my luggage which is one 2
three four five six just
kidding uh and uh what should we call
you oh you know what I love it when you
call me Big
Papa that will appear in my profile I am
ready for it and aie it is my birthday
on November
19th uh
19 uh let's see what do I I I think
wouldn't would be nice if I was born in
1999 um what is your gender oh this is
nice how how nice this is like super
inclusive um I I love that this is so
inclusive it's like somebody at Spotify
went and talked to their people and
listened to what people wanted and they
included people who uh who identify as
non-binary or other or prefer not to say
so like wherever you sit in that I love
uh and hats off to you Spotify for uh
being inclusive because inclusivity
matters share my registration data uh
sure why not I am not a robot I don't
think I am oh oh no uh the images with
bicycles that one's got a bike that
one's got a bike that one has a
bike what is that garbage there is that
this is a bike
lane uh this is a bike okay here we go
please I am not a robot thank you all
right so I'm G to click sign up oh I I
am male I I I am male so here we go that
is how I identify all right I'm going to
save uh that log in
and I am going to log in with it so here
we
go all right so it's asking me if I have
access to this developer console and it
will see my logged in as big papa here
we go and now you'll notice here that
there is this token here right this is
this ooth token that got created for me
by Spotify and it's putting it into this
console for me so I can share it now you
never want to let your token out if you
get a hold of somebody gets a hold of
your token they can do stuff on your
behalf and I realize that this is on a
uh screen being recorded and I'm going
to get rid of this uh token here in a
bit so you will not be able to have it
so I've got this token it's filled out
here I'm going to click try it and we're
going to do a search for Beyonce let's
see what happens so you will see that we
got some information back so we got a
list of artists because that's the type
that I searched for um and this is the
search that we did uh we'll see some uh
external URLs and we think that this is
probably her I'm going to see I'm going
to I'm going to grab this really quick
but you can kind of see how how things
are laid out out here right so uh this
is my Spotify URL for that let's see if
this is is
her this looks like her yeah yeah
definitely so so great crazy and love uh
cuff it I I haven't heard that one yet
awesome so uh this is Beyonce great so
we got her we we found her we used this
search um uh it has shows how many
followers she has wow 32 million good
job uh it tells the genres so we can do
all sorts of really cool
uh stuff with this and here you'll see
that um I'm getting a URL I'm getting a
link that will open up her specific
artist page right so so here is is her
ID so if I take her ID I'm going to grab
this ID and I'm going to come over here
to artists and I can come in here and I
can show all of the artists albums so
you'll see It'll be artists slid albums
let's see all of the albums that she did
but let's look at that in Json format so
uh the artist that I want I'm just going
to uh pipe pipe that that ID in there
from before right now it still has my
Bearer token the console has done that
for
me and uh I can go ahead and do try it
and we should see that now it's going to
return back albums right so we've made a
get request to the albums and I can see
all of the albums uh that she's had here
and we can see uh where they're
available in different markets as well
looks like she's available in lots of
markets all over the world uh who runs
the world all right so here we go uh
we're going to look let's see uh these
are these are
albums that's the artist there that's
the type of the artist let's get one of
the albums here let's make sure that we
got it so uh you see that it's got
different things like I could get access
to maybe the image of what this album is
so let's do that I'm going to post that
here open that up and let's see there
she is on her horse her her magical
horse
there so that's pretty cool right this
is this is awesome I can get access to
all sorts of information about an artist
I can get bu their ID I can go and find
all sorts of different things that I
wanted to do right so so um uh if I knew
an album too once I have the ID I could
get the ID I could get the tracks um all
sorts of amazing things and then there's
these playlists right so you can add a
playlist if I wanted to I could post to
create a playlist now of course I need
to authenticate to do that and that's a
little bit outside of what we're doing
here but I could add um uh put together
a playlist for for everybody to do using
this API uh and uh again when we looking
at the artists um when we're looking at
this get artist it's showing this curl
command and we're going to take a look
at that here in a bit but I just want to
take a little bit of time I want you to
go and take a look go back to this
discover section and kind of get
inspired by what's what's available
right so so you can look at um there's
these different things where you can you
can I was right you can check and see if
there's danceability of a song you can
go and find a track and is dancable and
you know that Beyonce's songs are going
to come back uh very high in the ability
uh thing there but lots of powerful
things and there's lots of cool examples
that you can do that people have already
gone and built and you can take a look
at how they built it and how they use
the API uh recommendations this is
awesome really this is like super wide
open to you and uh you can do all of
this because of the apis that they
provide pretty cool right you can get
access to all of spotify's music library
and you can build tools that extend
their platform I highly recommend that
you go and take a look at what other
people have built using these apis it's
super impressive did you notice how fast
those results came back how could it do
that search so quick oh wait a second
does it even need to those results don't
change all the time it's not like
Beyonce is dropping a new song every
minute though I wish she would those
results are definitely cashable ding
ding ding cacheability is also available
on the client and we'll get to that here
in a bit but this is a great example of
a layered system I'm almost positive
that Spotify has set up things so that
it Returns the same Json from its own
server side caching mechanism it's not
rendered that on every single request as
a user of the API I don't know how it's
doing that and frankly I don't care I
want it to be available and fast when I
hit that specific URL beyon definitely
appreciates how fast the results will
return she might even take that API Dev
to Red Lobster let's go ahead and take a
quick break during this break I'd love
for you to move around and think about
what you might be able to build with
that Spotify API for inance
while I was using this API I had this
idea pop up when I'm at a music festival
I often have a hard time deciding which
band I should go see there's so many now
I would love to have an app suggest to
me which of the bands that are currently
playing I would most likely enjoy you
know based on my listening habits I'm
pretty sure that you could build that
just with the Spotify API and using a
list of events of the bands that are
performing and if you do end up building
that share it with me cuz I need it what
other interests do you have that provide
an API that you can use check the notes
for more ideas now after you come back
from your break let's dive a little
deeper and make use of an API using our
own tools see you
soon no really take a quick break
seriously it'll do you good no binging
[Music]
well I realize that exploring an API on
a website is informative it might not
feel like you're actually using that API
I think the next logical step in
exploring is actually making that
request yourself from your computer not
from a website now as I pointed out in
the Spotify docs there were examples
that were using a command called curl
curl is an open source tool that is used
to send data back and forth and it runs
locally on your computer and it's
awesome for poking around at apis what
do you say we explore it a bit okay so
we are back here on our Spotify page and
we say that there is a command here that
says
curl curl is a command that we can run
from our terminal now if both of those
terms are new to you command and
terminal this is a great time to head
over to the notes and learn about what
the terminal is so my operating system
is a Mac and it has an application on it
uh called terminal so I'm going to open
that up terminal and in fact I'm going
to make this a little bit bigger let's
go ahead let's let's take let it take up
the whole screen we're going to be in
here for a little bit so I'm going to
type clear and clear my window all right
so um uh this terminal allows me to
perform actions on my computer like I
can make a d text to speech I can do say
and I can say hi Mom hi Mom and it says
Hi mom um uh and the Windows operating
system has a terminal as well and while
it's a little bit different they're
actually pretty quite similar uh but
check the notes for more on this so what
happens is I write the command and then
I pass in values for the parameter in
this case it's high mom now note that I
used quotes there because I want to pass
one value even though there is a space
if there was a space is kind of how you
separate things but with the quotes it's
saying this is one value that I'm
passing in we developers spend a lot of
time in our terminals so if this is new
to you I want you to remember that it
was new to everyone at one time so
please take your time and don't let this
get you too frustrated you've got this
so I already have curl installed uh I'm
going to just go Ahad ahead and make
sure that I Do by typing the word curl
and if I see this I can see that I could
type curl and then the command-- help
now if I didn't have this installed if
this came back with like I don't know
what you're talking about when you type
curl the word curl uh that's okay so um
uh we're going to head over to the notes
uh and you'll get sorted there but the
starting point where you I want you to
go is
curl. so uh you'll come to this page
you'll see this is a command line tool
in library for transferring data since
1998 that logo sure feels like that
doesn't it uh it does all sorts of
things what we're really concerned about
is this HTTP right we're going to use
this from the command line to get access
uh to a URL so if you don't have uh curl
on your command line go ahead and pause
me and check out the notes for the best
way uh to get this installed on your
computer uh there's a lot of different
ways to do it if you come here under uh
download you'll see that there's
different uh uh operating systems so
you've got your Linux and you've got
your Mac OS and if you come down here
you've got your windows so there's
different ways of getting things uh
installed so go ahead take your time get
that installed and when you come back um
I want you to try this I want you to do
this thing with me so I'm going to go
back to my terminal and uh I'm going to
make sure that it works uh the way that
I always like to test is I like to go to
um uh I can has dad joke.com uh how do
you get a Al alien to sleep you rock it
oh so good anyway that's how you do that
um that that'll let you go and it's
going to hit that website and it's going
to give you back a joke when you're
ready so now that we've got our curl up
and running we've got our successful dad
joke let's go ahead and run that command
uh from Spotify so I'm going to come
back over to my Spotify thing where I
was running the search uh I'm going to
make sure that it's still working
actually before I get started cuz these
these tokens Can expire and depending on
how long your break was it might have
expired but mine is still working so I
got this back here and I should be able
to get this from my command line and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
copy this and to highlight this this is
a uh development practice known by us
developers known as copy pasta so I'm
going to copy this and I am going to go
back to my terminal and I'm going to
paste um in this long uh list of things
here uh what this is doing is is saying
hey I want to make a get request to the
api. spotify.com slv1 search remember
that's where we were at we were
searching and we're passing the query
string of Beyonce and the type of artist
and uh we're telling it hey I would like
to get back uh Json and uh I am sending
you Json even though we're not actually
sending Json the default has that there
and this is the important one this is
sending you a header right the d-h is a
header and authorization and this is
that long token that we had there now if
all is working when I press enter I
should get here locally on my machine
that uh same list of data that we did
and I did check that out so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to come back up
here and I am going to grab wow there's
a lot of information here right when
this comes back I'm going to grab uh her
ID and so I remember that when we were
looking at it it was down in here this
ID is this the right one is that the
first one so we got items uh no this is
her ID here this is her ID it starts
with a six VW you so I'm going to copy
that and I'm going to use that I'm going
to go back and remember I'm going to go
and I'm going to look I want to see what
um what albums she has so I'm going to
come into here uh and I'm going to
remember I'm going to paste this this
URL here and I'm going to run uh this
make sure that that's still working I'd
like you to go ahead and pause me I
think I'd like to see can you get her
albums locally on your machine can you
go ahead and make sure that you can do
the same get artist see all of Beyonce's
out albums on your local machine so
here's what we'll do you give it a try
um and if you uh once once you get it
once you get it printing locally on your
machine um uh you can let me know and
then unpause me and I'll show you how I
did it okay are you ready you got this
pause
[Music]
me cool so how'd you do so here's
probably one way that you could have
done it is just copied that right copied
this whole thing and paste did it but
what I want to show you is that we have
access to we know what these these these
URLs are right so we know that there's
this V1 artist and in fact uh we can see
that there is a a git of slv1 artists
and then you can actually pass their ID
in the in the URL there right that's
what this ID is here so let's let's just
go back I'm going to show you a little
trick too so um I've I've got her ID
copied still um so I could have just
just ran that query and copied the curl
and pasted it here and if you did that
you did it right I just want to show you
a little bit more of what else how we
could explore so I'm going to press the
up arrow and you'll see um my cursor is
moving here um I'm going to press the
option key on Mac I think you press the
ALT key uh on Windows you can jump
around like this and I'm going to get
rid of what's here and I'm going to say
V1
artists right so that's the collection
of artists and I have that specific ID
right so there's the ID I'm going to
press enter here you'll see that I got
back Beyonce which is awesome that's
what I did and then remember the artists
have I'm going to go to the front of the
line line contr a on Mac uh and I'm
going to switch this so artists have uh
this is a specific artist so Beyonce and
we want to see Beyonce's SL albums which
is what the the console would have uh
generated for you but I just wanted to
show you that you can kind of navigate
and move through and you'll see that
there's uh there's a bunch of uh
different information that comes through
here um it's kind of hard to see right
so so um kind of hard to parse and this
is something optionally that you can do
so I press the up arrow and I'm going to
press pipe into a tool called
JQ and uh you'll see that it comes back
very nice and pretty right so um this is
something that that is very nice to have
uh and I piped that that's this this uh
the symbol above uh the the ENT key is
this pipe symbol and it allows you to
take whatever happened in this first
part of the command and take its results
and put it in this part of the command
which is super cool um and again this is
in the notes you don't need to you don't
need to worry about this but I know that
um I can query things so I can say that
of the items I'm only interested in the
name the dot name from each one of the
items and this is a little query
language that's attached to this JQ uh
program you don't need to do this this
is just something if you're doing it
from the command line it's something
that we do that we could kind of hack
around with a little bit and you'll see
I can get all the the lists of her
albums and that's pretty cool right
that's powerful and if you are going to
just start poking around and moving
around with the URLs one thing I wanted
to make sure that you're cautious of is
if we come back and we take a look at uh
the the console page here they do a nice
trick for you if we back here in search
like one of the things that I want to
make sure uh I know that Beyonce has
this song that's like something like who
runs the world right who runs the world
girls but I don't remember where what
album it's on so I'm going to search for
a type track and now note that my query
has spaces here now what's happened here
is it's done this uh URL encoding so
like if you were trying to to mess
around and and work with the search
you'd want to make sure that whatever
you did you passed that uh with those
those plus signs there so I'm going to
run that curl command we'll see who runs
the world girls and I going to I see
there's this this uh this open link here
so I'm going to go ahead I'm G to open
that let's take a look uh make sure this
is the right track I'm pretty sure it is
it is not the right track what is this
Bim
fim maybe maybe it's some other some
other so let's take a look well that
that's interesting so uh oh I I just
went to the bottom instead of going to
the top so I should have went to the
very top of these
result or I should have pulled probably
pulled the the name out Rocka by baby
there's a Rocka by baby version of this
who okay so when the color
stops hope you're not getting sick while
this scrolling so Beyonce is the artist
that we want so this is the one we want
to hear this song Let's see if I got the
right one this time that's just
something you know there's a lot of data
coming back here it's kind of hard to do
to use on the the command line sometimes
I'm a little clutzy like you just saw
here we go let's let's see what happens
let's make sure this is
it there it is there's
Beyonce not the song I was looking for
oh yeah it is who runs the world girls
and now I can listen to that so it's
like who runs the world girls it's kind
of like who runs the terminal curl boy
that was a that was a big setup just to
make that joke I hope that you enjoyed
it you can has dad joke curl is an
awesome way to explore apis and you'll
find that often just like we saw with
Spotify apis will use Curl in their
docks to show you how they work Spotify
is just one API and there are so many
companies and services out there in fact
some apis are the product like that's
what the company's selling to us
developers so now that we've been
building up those muscles why don't we
take a swing at another
API let's use a different API this time
let's use twilio twio is a company that
loves apis in fact that's what the
company started as more than a decade
ago just a set of apis it started as
abstracting away communication channels
and by that I mean any way you'd ever
possibly want to communicate with your
users want to send a text message
there's an API call for that want to
make a phone call there's an API send an
email a whatsa message literally
whichever way you want to communicate
there's an API for all of them
developers embed these apis into their
apps and I'm pretty sure that you've
probably used it without even knowing
you were now nowadays there's a whole
Suite of products that quo offers that
they saw their customers needing but
under the covers it's still these apis
that are powering
everything I need to be a little up
front here with you I love twilio I mean
I love it so much I even applied for a
job with them and I got it but even if
they didn't hire me I know that I'd
still show off how powerful their apis
are I mean with a single command you can
send a text message I remember when I
first did that I was like w like that
level of abstraction is amazing I mean
if you've never thought about it before
what even is a text message I mean I
know I have an app on my phone and I can
use it to communicate with literally
anyone else but how does that work like
there's all those different cell
carriers and standards and phone numbers
I mean I I have no idea and with twilio
I don't need to know that's the beauty
of this API it just works here let me
show you all right so here we are at
twilio.com and again a word of warning
this is going to look completely
different from my right now to your
right now uh so please make sure that
you check the notes for anything that
might have changed and it's specifically
about this flow that we're about ready
to do is we're going to sign up for a
trial account so I'm going to click this
sign up button here and this is going to
look completely different I know because
our team is constantly making this
better uh but the one thing that I want
to make sure that you know right now is
that you see that there is no credit
card required and it is a free twilio
account so I'm going to put my uh
information in here and I'm going to use
the same trick that I used uh uh before
uh where I do plus and I'm going to say
API course uh V2 gmail.com so I uh the
plus side there again a little Gmail
trick um uh we're going to go ahead I'm
going to put in my password again uh 1 2
3 4 5 six my luggage how many times can
I do that joke and then uh would I do
this except uh must be 16 or more
characters
okay there's some password requirements
over there
I think that's 16 all right uh here we
go starting my free
trial I'm ready let's do
this I'm definitely going to save that
long password because I need that for
later all right so I have now uh should
have been sent an email so let me make
sure that I got that
email and I did I am going to click uh
the link to verify it and here we go I'm
going to verify my phone number uh to
verify I'm human because all humans have
phones so we're going to do 432 527
4274 please don't call too late uh I'm
going to try that I'm going to click
verify all right so I got my
verification code hey that came very
quickly what's wonderful my verification
code uh is
869 uh hopefully your code's different
than that wouldn't that be funny if they
were all the same uh all right so here
we go so which product are we here to
use we're going to use SMS we're going
to use the SMS messaging product and
what do we plan to build uh let's see uh
of course these questions are going to
be different uh what are we going to do
we're going to build
um build something else we're going to
build something else uh we how do we
want to build with with twilio with code
right so we're g end up writing code if
we want to with minimal code on top of
code samples or no code at all so uh
definitely don't need code to build over
here but I'm going to say with code
because we're we're developers here um
so what is your preferred coding
language we're going to do JavaScript uh
even if it's not we're going to be doing
JavaScript for the rest of this uh
course and I do want to host my code on
twio which is nice there's a nice
serverless option these options like I
said are totally going to change just
try to answer them as truthfully as you
can so um my billing country is United
States uh which is true and I'm going to
get
started I'm going to go ahead and walk
this I guess let's go ahead and so we'll
um I can explore products there's way
more products that are available than
you can see here this is what got built
based on the menu of what they thought
but if I ever want to I can come to this
explore products and get more uh we
probably won't need to do that because
we filled out what we're going to do um
and this is where you can get access to
your logs I'll show that off here in a
bit if there's any problems you'll be
able to find them there uh manage your
account keys and build trust with your
customers yeah we can build all sorts of
different uh uh things in here we
probably won't need to do too much here
uh because most of the keys that we have
are available to us uh right from this
page that we're on actually
so we'll keep going uh and I can see the
billing and again uh you're in a trial
account and you think you get something
like $15 uh to to try with so we'll be
sending text messages using that that
trial dollar dollar bills y'all uh so
here we go uh and then you can uh switch
between products so you can have
multiple accounts right so if you wanted
to come and like explore a little bit do
your own personal thing maybe do
something for work later uh up to you
there's a 1550 is what we got all right
so um and then I'll click next and uh
then I can uh anytime I want so I can
look at this tour again uh to help
navigate around which is really nice
beautiful console um so uh we could
definitely go ahead and uh the first
thing that we want to do is we want to
get a twio phone
number so I'm going to do that I'm going
to click this get twilio phone
number and I am so glad that this
happened to me it says that this account
has been restricted from provisioning
new phone numbers uh which means it
thinks that I might be spam and you know
why it is it's because I put that Gmail
account with a little plus thing there
so if this happens to you I don't want
you to feel offended or anything like
that I want you to check the notes for
the latest ways uh to get around this
and also I'm going to go right now and
I'm going to email compliance review at
twilio.com and I should get that uh up
and running if this happen to you go
ahead uh press pause check the notes
Here uh for for what to do and I'm going
to uh actually uh do that I'm going to
press pause here I'm going to get my
account able to uh get a phone number
and I will I'll see you back here in 1
second all right so I got all sorted out
so I sent my email to uh the compliance
uh folks and I was able to uh say that I
was doing a personal account and I'm
learning how to use these apis and they
were able to let me get in here so uh
what I'm going to do now is when I click
this get a twio phone number we're not
going to see that message because I'm
coming in and I've got a new phone
number and it automatically gave me this
one this one here this 561 uh it Went
Away really quick but it's down here
this is my this is my my twio phone
number is is 561 816 5433 now this
number is mine which is awesome I can
use this uh message I can send messages
I can receive messages I can do all
sorts of things with this I can make
calls I can receive calls this twilio
phone number is mine uh to play with I
think we should do just that we should
send a text message now before we get
started I want to make sure that you
know this this stuff you are on a trial
account so there are some limitations
you can only send messages and make
calls to verified phone numbers so when
we set things up we verified like I'm
able to send a text to myself because I
verified my phone number I and it will
say sent from my twio account beforehand
uh and there's more things about your
trial account too if you wanted to to
get into that so so uh check the notes
uh because this this very well could
have changed uh but check the notes for
for more on
this so let's do it let's send a short
message service an SMS I so I'm going to
click here on this docs and support and
I'm I click this it's going to open up
I'm going to go to these developer docs
these developer docs are some of the
best that are available out there u i
want you to to see these so we're to
come here under uh SMS because that's
what we're doing right short message
service and uh under here under these
these sides on the the docks here you
can uh collapse these so I'm going to
come in here under API reference I'm
going to go to this message
resource now um this is a this is an API
right so we're we're in the API
reference so the API that we want to do
is we want to be able to send uh from
and uh we want to say from the phone
number that we just got and we want to
send a message to my phone number right
so uh we're going to do that and you'll
you'll see that over here on the right
um there are uh things that you can do
that that that show you what you can do
so with this message we can do all these
different things U we'll start with
create a message we'll create a message
first so we're going to go uh into this
create a message and uh there's these
different languages here so we have JS
uh and you can see the style that it
looks like we'll take a look at at
something like this here real shortly
this is a helper library that wraps
around the API so you don't need to do
the sorts of things that uh uh we're
we're about ready to have to do you can
you could do things a little bit more
cleanly but what we're going to look at
is curl right so here's our friend Curl
we're going to jump over here to curl
and uh the docs have this really nice
thing where I'm able to actually copy
this so I'm going to click uh to copy
this and I'm going to pop over to my
terminal now again I'm running on a Mac
so there's a couple of things here that
this is assuming that is going to be
okay because I am running uh on a Mac
it's going to assume uh that these
slashes see these slashes at the end
here um these uh in on a Mac terminal
these show that we're in the new we're
making a new line available here and
also you'll see that there's these
account SIDS and these off tokens this
dollar sign twilio off token dollar sign
twio account Sid um in my terminal on my
Mac that is what's known as an
environment variable and they've been
set now um I don't have those set
currently because I just uh built this
account so what I'm going to do is um
kind of bad practice actually I'm going
to actually put my real uh information
here for us to use so so back back here
on our uh console on our tro console
you'll see that I have this thing here
called this account Sid or string
identifier so this is my ID my unique ID
for the account that I just created so
I'm going to go I'm going to click this
copy button so I copied that I'm going
to come back here and I'm going to move
my mouse and I'm going to remove right
here where it says account Sid so that's
string identifier I'm going to paste
this so that is the way that twilio is
uh identifying who I am I'm going to go
backwards through the rest of these and
so uh if you're watching here on Windows
let's just go ahead let's get rid of
these uh these new lines here um so I'm
going to just put them all on one line
uh we can handle that we'll do that so
I'm going to uh get rid of that line
and uh that way it will work uh
completely on uh both both Windows and
Mac uh for what we're trying to do so I
still have my uh account Sid here so I'm
going to keep on backing up
here uh and I'm going to get rid of that
line there we go and you'll see one more
time here there's the too account Sid
that string identifier for my account
was still present so I'm G to paste that
there so now the API call that I'm doing
is to that specific account it's doing
to this messages and you'll note that
it's doing now it's doing a post so
because we're creating something new
right so we're using post to create a
message and you'll see here that it says
from equals and uh the number actually
there for the from we want that to be
the twilio number that we just got right
so that new one that we just got we're
going to say that is sent
from let me go
back I'm gonna copy my tlio phone number
right so I've got my my 561 number there
and I'm going to paste that here so
uh from and the this plus 561 that's a
US number so it's got that the it's
called a 10 digigit long code 10 DLC so
it's 561 816 5433 is the number that I
just bought and uh we're going to say by
default it said hi there um the body of
the message right so instead of that
what we're going to do and note that
this is all in quot quotes we're going
to say aoy world I don't know if you
know this or not but the the first word
the way that we used to answer the phone
um was uh we'd say the phone would ring
and you'd be like aoy and the other side
would go aoy Hoy so we like to do that
here a lot at chulia we say aoy world
it's kind of like the Holo world of this
so the body of the message the text that
we're going to get uh is going to say
aoy world and then we're going to send
it I'm going to send it to my phone
number um so this is this is one of
those numbers that you verified right
when you created your account you
verified you had a number so my phone
number is 432 527 4274 don't text too
late at night please um and then the
final thing that we have here is this
off token now this is a very private key
right we don't ever want anybody to have
access this is like that Spotify token
that we had right we don't ever want
anybody to have it I am going to I trust
you uh and I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to paste that here uh so that we
have it so um uh that is uh something
that you never want to let out because
now you could seeing this on my screen
you could use this right um and uh you
probably don't want anybody doing that
so you never want to actually give that
number out you want to hide that uh and
we'll talk about how to do that uh more
here in the future but right now I just
wanted to show you we're going to use
Curl we are going to create we're going
to send a post to this URL here and
you'll notice that ends in Json so
that's what we're going to get back
that's the way that that it works this
is to my account my account Sid you see
it starts with this AC
um and and we're going to post uh using
this data URL encode so the way that the
twio API works is it takes um some
parameters it takes from body and to and
the way that you pass those in curl is
with this Das Das data URL encode and
you pass what it is uh that you want to
have uh go across here so we're going to
if all of this works I should get a
message back uh I should get a text
message on my actual phone uh that says
aoy world let's do
and it looks like I'm missing a quote
someplace so where is the quote that I'm
missing I don't see a missing
[Music]
quote if I can go press the up Arrow
maybe it will show up yeah oh right you
know how many times I do that the aoy
world the exclamation point uh is is uh
something you need to typically Escape
so I'm just going to say a Hoy world
with a single quote there so if uh if
you're having that problem sorry that's
what that was so I pressed the up Arrow
to get my information back uh there and
now if all is going well and I press s
we should get a text here we go and so I
got this message back I got this and
sure enough here it is I got it and you
can see here it says at the front of the
body that it sent it says ay it says a
scent from your Twi trial account which
is fine we're in a trial account that's
totally fine but I did and boom I got it
on my actual phone I got that message
which is awesome we now have the ability
uh to send a text message from the
command line right that's pretty
cool let's take this a step further
actually so we know that uh that that
API when I did a a post I was able to uh
get information back I'm going to go
ahead now and I'm going to do uh just
bring that back and I'm going to get rid
of all of these parameters here um I'm
going to get rid of the from the body
and the two and I'm going to change I'm
going to make that I'm going to do a
get and let me show you what that looks
like so I'm going to get rid of all of
those parameters I'm going to keep that
same URL and it still has my account Sid
there right in there and uh instead of a
post what we're going to do is we're
going to do a get what we should do is
we should get back all of the messages
that are there so I'm going to hit this
kind of like a message log right so
these are all the messages that have
been sent uh which is awesome here it is
sent from your toio trial account so and
actually I can make this look a little
bit prettier like we saw with JQ again
totally optional in the notes if you
want it yeah there we go so you can see
that um I've got some information uh
that's sent back here and you can see
that the the message that was sent it
was sent outbound uh to my phone number
to me from that number uh which is
awesome right and uh like I said curl is
a little bit uh challenging because it's
going to be a little bit different if
you're in uh Microsoft Windows or if
you're in Mac I tried to make that as
comfortable as possible but you saw that
I did run into a couple of things like I
couldn't use the exclamation point and
things like that um it's a little clumsy
so um stay tuned because there are more
tools coming your way awesome job
getting that running from your local
machine it feels pretty good doesn't it
what a cool skill you have now you can
send a text message from your machine
with just a single command now believe
me this is just the tip of the iceberg
of what you can do there are so many
more twio apis available and now I know
that you can explore them with curl for
now though let's take things another
step deeper now I don't know about you
but I'm a little clumsy when it comes to
Long commands on the terminal like we
just did with curl when exploring apis I
really like to lean on visual tools if
you don't mind I'd love to show you some
that is of course right after you take a
quick
[Music]
break there are a few tools that I Rely
Upon when it's time for me to explore
new apis and I thought I'd share them
with you I use these to dive in get my
hands dirty and organize my learnings
one of the most famous tools and one
that you've probably already heard of is
called Postman do you get it
Postman in addition to being a pretty
good Pun It's also a Powerhouse of
features Postman started as a Chrome
extension that let you make API calls
and what it's turned into is a powerful
Enterprise ready tool with all sorts of
bells and whistles and even sharable
collections for the most popular apis
that are out out there it's jam-packed
full of features and in my humble
opinion you probably don't need all that
just yet in your Learning Journey there
are entire courses on how to properly
wield its power and I've linked to a few
of those in the notes there are other
tools popping up all the time that allow
you to explore apis and store your notes
I like to think of these apps as the
built-in the vein of Postman there's a
whole genre of video games that gets
dubbed Metroid Vania because they're
similar to Metroid and Castlevania now
these apps are
Postman post Postman esque let me show
you an example I just bought this lamp
here it's rad it's from GOI and it's got
this app that I can use to control it on
my phone I can change the colors right
and I can even make it dance to my
beatbox it also has an API these are the
docs here and as I explore these docks
uh I'm going to save them in one of
these Postman esque tools that I've been
using lately called rest
Fox like here I can see all of the
devices that are associated with my GOI
account and I set that up using this URL
here and you'll see that it is a get
request and I pressed send and it sent
the request and I got back uh the goie
devices that are associated with my
account this API requires a header and
it's called goie API key and you'll see
these double mustaches here that I'm
using this side little mustache thing uh
this is getting things from my
environment as a special key that I
don't want anybody to see I'll show you
more of those here in a bit now notice
how this is a get so I can send the
request and you'll see that here's my
response and I can also get the current
state so I have a different call here I
can get the current state and note that
uh if I click Send here we can see that
this is the color of my light currently
and I can also uh turn it on or turn it
off and I can turn it
on and I can also change the color right
so I'm going to turn this to to Red you
don't have to turn the red light on
roxan pretty cool right and I have this
here for me whenever I want to tweak
things when I want to come back later
and when I want to use it in my code did
you just have a light bulb moment I
quite literally just did let's see if we
can't build one of these for the twilio
apis so if you'd like to get rest Fox
installed please uh check the notes this
is an open source tool and it's getting
better every day now if you love it too
I highly suggest that you start it if
you click up here you could go and you
can actually check out the GitHub repo
uh and you could see cute little fox
here and you'll see over here how it's
tagged oh it's tagged rest client I
guess maybe that's a little bit better
than my Metroid Vania analogy uh maybe
rest client is a good thing API client
that's also a good thing so there's lots
of these tools uh that are available but
let's start using this one so I've got
rest fox running here and you'll see
I've got the goie folder which I can
collapse
and typically what I do is group these
by the API that I'm exploring so let's
keep poking around a little bit with
twilio so uh what I'll do is I'll make a
new folder called twilio so I'm going to
right click over here and make a new
folder called
twilio and now in here we'll create a
new request so I right clicked new
request and I'd love to explore more of
the SMS API so let's see uh oh you know
what this new number that we just bought
this twilio number that we bought not
not only can It send messages but it can
also receive them so we could send it a
message so let's do that so let's go
ahead and send a text to your number now
if you forgot your number it's uh over
in your console so if you come to your
console and you scroll down a little bit
here you'll see my twilio number so go
ahead and send uh a text to your number
now my number I'm going to send a number
it's 561 81654 33 I'm going to send it
yo and uh uh there we go it went and I
ended up getting a default message back
um and we could change this we can make
we could program this to do whatever uh
but I'll show that off later but for now
uh I just want you to know that we
created a new message uh by sending to
this this API and we can actually get it
um and you can also find your phone
number later here under this phone
numbers if you go to phone numbers
manage active numbers uh you can see
your phone number and remember outside
of trial mode you could buy multiple
numbers so that's an important uh thing
to know here
so all right so we're going to look at
the incoming messages so uh we should do
that we should call the request what
it's going to be we'll call this
incoming message log that sounds good
and we'll click
create okay so let's head over to the
docs and see how we might do this with
so back in the docs here on the message
resource remember this is where we did
the create a message I'm going to see if
there's something else down in here ah
list all messages that's a good one
but we don't want all of the messages we
actually want to filter it a little bit
so look here we can do this by by
matching filter criteria that's great so
we're in here I'm under the curl tab
right I could be in these different ones
but this this is the example that we
want here I'm going to grab this URL
you're going to see all of this that's
how they're filtering there's some stuff
here at the end I'm going to grab all of
this and I'm going to copy it I'm gonna
come back over and I am going to uh
paste it here in this enter request URL
I'm going to paste the whole thing there
and it was a get request and uh the URL
had some stuff in this query string that
came afterwards and a query string uh is
you know defined by this question mark
so we don't want this date sent let's
get rid of this and what's next we don't
we don't want from right we don't we
want to look at all the numbers that
were was sent to right so this is the
two here is what we want
now this 2B here just happens to be a uh
percent 2B URL and Coda happens to be a
plus and I know that and I just happen
to know that without having to Google it
but that's that's a little rough to know
like how do I make a plus sign in in
here um wouldn't it be nice if this tool
just did all of this URL encoding for us
like we didn't need to make this mess at
the end well check this out here's query
right here this is what we want so we
want to add this query we don't want to
have this whole stuff at the end here we
want to put in uh two we're going to add
uh one of those things there we'll put
in a two so that's going to append that
query string for me and I'm going to put
in uh uh the to my phone number which
again my willo phone number uh which is
over
here in my
logs uh right here actually I can I'm
going to grab this number this is my my
twilio number I'm going to put it in the
format uh that is wanted there my rest
Fox here we go so I'm gon to that and
we're going to get rid of make sure
that's 1561 there we go got rid of all
those all
right now also remember that this was
accounts and then it had account Sid
right so that's the the ID for my
account and then it's under messages
there's a collection called messages
underneath this count Sid but what we
want here is we want that was uh using
an environment variable from curl um but
this is also known as a path variable
right a path parameter so here down here
we have this path parameters so the way
that these work actually uh to to
replace them is if we go like this if I
get rid of this and I put a Col in
what's going to happen is we can
anything that's down here in this path
parameter will replace what's here so
let's do that let's add this item and
again that is twilio account Sid so
that's the name of the the the variable
that's up here right is col and twio
account Sid that was just what's there
let's keep it because that's what it is
and then we're going to put our account
Sid there so that also is on my console
so I'm going to flip back uh to my
console and uh on the the main page here
you come in uh you can come down and you
can grab your account Sid so now I have
my account S and I'm going to paste that
there awesome and I think we're ready
I'm going to press send and uhoh we got
an error we got a 401 unauthorized no
credentials provided oh that's right of
course we want to log in we don't want
anyone just being able to see uh these
messages so we want to make sure that we
have some authentication
happening so I'm going to head over to
the off tab you'll see that if I slide
this back and forth I don't know how
much screen real estate you have but you
can you can slide these kind of around
as need be uh so I can I'm going to pull
this and you'll see that when I do my my
little menu here uh collapses uh so uh
I'm going to choose off from here but
that that is also available in uh the
header here right so like it's just a
different view of
it all right so in the off I'm going to
put in a basic off and I'm going to put
in a username which is my username and
then I'm also going to put
in uh my password which is my off token
over here and again this is very private
and you would never ever want to do this
uh you now know my off token I don't
want you to have that um uh because uh
you could do exactly anything you wanted
to to my account now that we're there
and one of the things that you could do
is see the messages that were sent in
and look there's my yo my yo message has
made it in um awesome so uh also I
wanted to show you the request that
happened let's take a look at that you
can see that what actually happened was
it was a get that was sent with the
account Sid right and so that was the
account Sid that we used from if we look
back at the query parameters here the
account Sid uh showed up there and then
uh it automatically did a two URL
encoded and if you look it put the
question mark in for us and it did that
percent 2B for us automatically URL
encoded very nice
right and we can see the headers that
were sent and we can also take a look
let's look again at this preview so we
see that we had a the the response came
back and this is Json right so we have a
key called messages and this messages
has this uh it starts out there could be
multiple messages here right so this is
a the start of what's known as a list or
an array and then there's an object and
the start of the object is always done
with one of these mustaches and we call
those mustaches because if you kind of
turn your head sideways it it looks like
a mustache so uh all between the opening
mustache and the closing mustache uh is
the information about um the mesages
right so here's the and there's the
closing uh bit of my list there's only
one this is the closing mustache
there and uh so part of the message that
we could see we could see who uh it was
to that's that's my twio phone number
here and we could see the from there's
my phone number there please don't call
too late but that's my my phone number
uh and I did say I said yo to it which
is awesome so now we have this now this
step is completely optional this is
something that I like to do uh is I like
to take notes all right so there's this
incoming message log I like to keep
notes and I put those in the description
over here and so uh uh let's see uh this
returns all
incoming well let's let's be a little
more all messages uh sent to this phone
number right and uh one of the things
that I like to do is I like to put on uh
the docs here so if I ever come back and
I want to find how was it that I learned
how to do that I can come go and look uh
and put a link there so I'm going to go
flip back over the stocks real
quick uh and this is read message with
matching a filter I'm going to copy this
link I'm going to grab this or click
this here so that then it changed the
URL up here going I copy this this is
what I'm going to store in my notes
again this is totally optional and this
is just notes for you for later because
you could end up having a whole bunch of
these and you might not remember how you
found how to do that if there's
something specific or strange about the
AP that she wanted to know I keep the
notes in there and it's a just a handy
learning tool and again totally optional
so we've got our first entry all set and
I think we should add another one why
don't we create the send message one
right so the one that we did before we
sent messages let's do that so I'm just
going to duplicate this because it's got
a bunch of the information that I
already need in it so I'm going to
duplicate it and uh what I'm going to do
here is I'm going to duplicate and I'm
going to say uh send message right
so uh when we sent a message before
remember it wasn't a get a post so I'm
going to change um I'm going to change
that from uh a get to a post so now
we've got this send message that's a
post uh and uh the query string I don't
uh want to send a query string anymore
right so remember before when we did
this we sent it to using the the data
URL and code in fact let's go let's pop
back over there and look at what it was
that we did so in the
documentation uh over here we have this
uh create a message resource so so on
the message Resource page uh here we can
look and we can go to this create a
message resource and uh there's some
information about it so you send this
HTTP post uh you can see that again we
were remember before we doing this data
URL encode we were doing this URL
encoded so it's this form encoding is
what's happening here and oh
look well a couple things actually
there's a nice warning here that says if
you want send messages well in trial
mode you must verify your two numbers so
if you wanted to send to somebody else
you could put them in this verified call
caller IDs if you wanted to you could
send to somebody else as well um just
just there that's how you do that uh if
you wanted to test or show somebody what
you're building um that's that's how you
do that uh after of course after you're
not in trial mode you could send it to
whoever you would like to so um when we
are creating a message we must include
the two right we need that and we need
the from so we'll do either and we'll do
body and there's this media URL which
means I can send a picture let's let's
do that let's make it so that it sends a
picture now when I am in rest Fox over
here um I don't want to use the query
anymore uh I'm going to keep the path
because the path is the same right so
we're going to do uh we're going to do a
post to that same URL twilio
account accounted messages. Json and
we're going to make a post to it instead
of making a list and retrieving we're
going to create so uh we're going to go
under body and for the body we're going
to make it form URL encoded uh and what
we want to do there is we want to send
it to so I'm going to send this uh to my
number again don't call too late
527 uh
4274 um no really uh if you want to call
and get feedback that's fine um I I'd
love to chat um so we'll do from and
that is uh my number again this is my
number and
uh what was that number so we can come
here into the message log we can go pull
that number from the query string so
this is my uh quo number there
um uh from is this value there and we
are going to add uh the body the body
will say sent from rest
Fox and let's add our media URL and I
just happen to have one of my favorite
photos which you will have to um
uh check out for yourself um to know
what it is but it is a photo that uh I
pick if you will that I'm going to uh
send to myself um it's also in the notes
if you want to do this as well if you
want to copy that and paste that so here
we go I am going to do a send now
remember I'm also authenticated with my
my username and password because that
copied across when I did it so I'm going
to do a two from a body and a media URL
so now I'm going to go ahead and click
Send and boom we got our message back
right so the response we got a 2011
created right so it was created uh in
the body we can see the body of our
message the key is sent from rest Fox uh
it's got some information we can go
ahead and uh get access to that uh
message if we wanted to and it's got
these actual uh media resources down
here which we can also take a look at
and we could if we wanted to open up a
whole another one of these and explore
and see what that looked like but let's
take a look at that in a new tool before
we do go to look at that new tool one
thing uh that I don't love about what we
just did are um in my in these requests
and these separate requests these these
uh these These are duplicated right
they've got this username and password
if I go to my post uh send message I've
got this username and uh password and
they're duplicated there which isn't
great right that's not that's not
excellent um uh one of the things one of
the tools that most of these uh rest
clients provide is a thing called an
environment and let's set that up really
quick real quick for this um so if I
come here under this environment here is
my default uh collection and I can add a
new environment I'm going to add one for
twio now the way that these work uh are
they are Json based so uh this is
remember this is the start of an object
now if you've never WR written Json
before take your time use some patience
one of the things that you could do is
you can come in and you can put in uh
account
willo account Sid and uh you do the key
and then you do a colon and you can see
that I'm this is unexpected Json down
here it's helping me out um and now uh
I'm G to put in my account Sid and again
let me go copy that one more time and I
don't have to copy this anymore because
it will be part of my environment it
will be here with me which is really
nice so come over here I'm going to
paste that and now I want to add a new
key so the way Json works is you put a
comma after that right and I'm going to
put a new uh the key here and we'll do
AO uh account or
offen and again this is uh that can be
that key can be whatever you want it to
be and we'll be able to reference it so
I'm going to come and grab my off token
I'm going to change this right so uh
that's a great use case of this is I
don't want you to be able
to uh I am going to change this right so
as soon as this as soon as I'm done
recording this I'm going to change my
off token and that would mean that I'd
have to go change each one of them but
now I have one place where it's defined
I have one place in my environment
that's defined so I have this
environment here that says quo now
instead of user name I can do this
mustache mustache and I can say
twio uh account Sid and uh that's the
way the templating language works here
and in most of these rest clients um and
you can do
uho uh token so when you see that that's
what's happening that is the environment
it's using the environment variables I'm
going to go do that for here and also
I'm going to copy my off token for here
and so now I only need to change that in
one place in my environment um and uh
you can also use it here so like not
like before I can I can also put my
account Sid here um so that will also
make this so that it's sharable right so
um if I don't specify my information in
here I can share it so you what you
could do and actually why don't you try
to do it why don't you try to add your
twilio phone number and uh see if you
can figure out how to add to your Json
there uh your twilio phone number and
then you could replace it right you
could replace it here with your uh with
your from from your twilio phone number
uh pretty neat right so that's a good
that's a good little trick that you
could do and here you could do your
twillo phone number you could use it
there too so anything that you're using
is something that you can kind of store
there in your environment and what's
nice about that let's make sure that
it's still
Works yep it's still working and let's
make sure sure oh I'm not going to send
another picture to myself that's
fine so uh we know that this environment
is now working and it's here and I don't
need to go back and get those every
single time uh really handy and what's
nice is you can do these imports and
exports and we'll take a look at that
here in a bit so uh when we get back
we're going to take a look in a
different Tool uh cuz this is rest Fox
and I know that you're probably getting
ready for a rest so let's take a quick
break
um and then let's see if we can't
retrieve that pit that I sent myself via
this API but let's do that in another
Postman NY uh their rest client right
after a quick break that
[Music]
is all right quick refresher we had just
sent a message message from rest Fox a
rest API client uh here's the body of
the message we did sent from rest Fox
and we actually sent across uh some
media with it you can see here it has
this num media one because uh each text
message can have multiple uh uh Medias
attached and if you scroll down here
you'll can see that there is this uh key
of subresource Uris and it has a list of
um an object here and one of the objects
is for media and what this will do is
this will allow whatever's at URL will
give us the uh accounts uh for this
account for this message specifically
it'll give us all of the media that is
listed now um typically when I have
something that's uh this far out we
could actually add another one here but
I thought I'd show you a little bit of
how my process normally works in case
you wanted to to see what that felt like
so I use an editor called Visual Studio
code it's free it's available and this
is where I do my coding from so I start
I start here here I start working on my
coding I would love for you to go ahead
and download this um because I want to
show you a tool that's inside here that
will allow us to do a rest client as
well so go ahead and pause me get Visual
Studio code uh installed and once you do
come back and uh I'll show you
[Music]
something okay so uh once you get Visual
Studio code up and running if you press
uh command shift p there is a thing
called extension and this will do a
little if you type install extensions
you can come here and you can see
different things that are available what
I want you to install is a thing called
Thunder we're going to install a thing
called Thunder client and it's this one
here it's a lightweight rest API client
I for vs code it's really powerful and
the good news is is it is Postman esque
you are going to feel very familiar when
you take a look at this so uh if you do
it you you go ahead and click install uh
and what will happen is there'll be a
little Thunder client that will install
over here like so uh and just like
you've seen before there are these this
concept of uh Collections and we can
make a new one so I'll make a new
collection uh for twio uh and typically
what I'm doing is I'm coding and I run
into this API and I'm like oh I wonder
what this is uh I've going to go uh
explore it a little bit I'll explore it
right from my editor right so I'm write
my code here and then I can come over
here and just take a look at uh what was
there and so uh let's go back to rest
Fox and I'm going to grab uh that rest
Fox that we had here right so we're
going to do that
then grab that and I'm going to come
back over here to uh twio I'm going to
make a new request I get to name it and
this was the uh media check uh let's no
we're going to do all media all media
for a specific message
right uh so here we go I'm going to
paste that URL in here and of course
it's missing that first part which was
uh api. twilio.com uh so again this is
the going for that account to those
messages um I'm going to look here at
where it says off so it says inherit
authentication values from parent this
is a very nice thing this is something
that postman has too uh that rest Fox
doesn't necessarily have uh we put this
in our own environment um it's kind of
similar uh but you can make for this
collection that we built we can actually
do the settings for the collection and
if I come in here I can set the off up
here so I could do this basic off here
and uh go grab my stuff and so just a
reminder in rest Fox uh when we did that
before we were in the environment of
twilio and I was able grab uh the twilio
account Sid right so let's go uh let's
go back to our code here and the twio
accounted is the username and the
password let's go back to uh that
environment and rest Fox uh the password
is that
off there we go we'll paste that there
perfect so I'm going to click uh save on
this and so now this all media should
work so I'm going to go ahead I'm going
to do a send to this and there we go we
got it back and we can see uh um there's
a media list is the key here and again
it's an array of those and this is the
list of all of the media that's
available and so now look at this
collection so we have a collection of
accounts and here's a specific account
we have a collection that account has
messages uh that uh message has media
and that media has an entry a media
entry and that's it this is what we're
looking at right here so something
that's pretty cool the way that this
works is if I get this I can get some
metadata information about it but if I
get just a little bit of it if I just go
ahead and take this the way that the way
that twilio works and not not all AP
apis do this but if I do this without
the extension here I'll actually get
back the picture that I sent so I'm
going to do that I'm going to make a new
a new little request here so uh new
request and uh we're going to call this
uh get the pick right we're going to get
that pick that I sent because we don't
still don't know what that pick was what
was it let's go take a look so um so
again at the end of this
uh oops sorry at the at the end of this
there is no extension right so I I got
rid of the Json extension I'm going to
put at the front here HPS api.
twilio.com
and uh the interesting thing about this
is this pick is not authenticated and if
you do authenticate you end up actually
having some problems so I'm going to
tell this request specifically to not
inherit value so I'm going to disable
this so that it's not authenticated so
when I click this if all goes well we
should see the pick that I submitted
awesome and we do uh cool so um it's a
little big it's a little bit of of a
pick um that was sent here um and uh we
could take a look at some stuff here we
could look at the headers that were sent
so we can see a couple things one of the
things that I think is really
interesting is when it says last
modified so uh the last modified date if
you have a request that has this on it
it means that you can use caching so you
can uh when you make the request you can
actually say if it's been modified since
this time I do that so I'm going to do
that I'm going to grab this let's let's
just take a look and see what that does
so I'm going to go to headers here and
I'm going to put a new header in here of
if and you can see that there's
autocomplete so it's if modified since
so again this is the request that I am
making I'm making this request and I'm
going to say if it's been modified since
then uh uh give me it otherwise uh let
me know and so the way that it lets you
know um is 304 not modified so that's a
status and you'll see that I got zero
bytes back so that is how caching Works
um and what you can do to to send this
across so so this is really powerful
right I didn't need to set up all the
other things and it's kind of really a
quick little uh look at this I don't
actually even need to do a collection I
can just do a new request outside of it
and I kind of explore through and see
how these things are working which ding
ding ding means we covered another part
of a restful API constraint scavenger
hunt using standard h to be caching
mechanisms like last modified and eags a
restful API should support caching it's
up to you to maintain the cach on your
client and decorate your quests but this
can come in really handy to avoid making
unneeded requests and those are the the
postman esque things I wanted you to see
I wanted you to be able to do that
without diving in necessarily to do all
of the postman Enterprise uh things that
you want to do but I think it's time I
think you should feel comfortable enough
that we can now look at Postman and see
what we've already learned there so I'm
going to go uh here and I'm going to
just do a quick quick little Google
search for Postman um and this is really
nice you can do this for whatever API
you're working with and since we're
working with twio I'm going to search
for the postman twilio collection um so
there's some docs on twilio about it but
if you look here there's this twilio
postman on the API Network so this is
important to know there's a lot of uh uh
things on this API Network where they've
built uh apis for you to go and share so
I'm going to click this and now note I'm
inside of a web browser postman's done a
really gorgeous job of uh of letting you
run inside of your browser you also can
run it locally like we did with rest Fox
um but I'm going to run this from my
browser so I'm going to go into this
messaging
SMS uh and you can see there's all sorts
of different things uh in here uh it's a
little bit hard to get to here but you
could change things put in your account
it and and all sorts of things like we
saw look here's the double mustaches
right and here's a thing to send an SMS
uh um and it's it's super cool um it
it's it's neat right and so you've seen
this here's your authorization headers
the body there's Collections and uh
what's cool is somebody's already built
these collections for you and they're
sharing your stuff this way right so
that's kind of that's kind of nice so
again there's path variables right and
the path variables coming up here
there's the the colon account Sid that
you saw uh from before here somebody's
using this as the start uh the https API
t.com and it's doing a post right so it
feels very similar so you're you're
familiar with this there's also a bunch
of other things over here that it can do
that can get a little bit distracting
and that's what I was trying to kind of
avoid uh um because I wanted you to to
get get familiar with it but know that
this exists um one of the really cool
things that Postman does is if you click
over here on this far right over here
there's this little uh code it's like
open close tag this is really neat so um
we have curl right so we can see this is
how I would go ahead and do this and
this this feels familiar right this is
how what we actually did we did this
curl statement but check this out you
can do this in any programming language
so the trick here the trick to remember
is that any programming language that
can make an HTTP request like it has a
client built into it because these are
all standard the rest API right we're
following these constraints that have
been defined it can generate code for
you so here's nodejs using a package
called axios so axios allows you to
fetch things so this is what it would
look like if you tried to write that
using axios um and if you look at in
here you come down here here it is in uh
PHP with with guzzle I don't I don't
know what guzzle is I like that though
that's why I chose it um so you can see
that it's generating this code for you
and if I copied this and pasted it into
my PHP code or my python code or my Java
code it would just work and that's
really handy that is if the company
that's providing the API doesn't have a
helper library or an SDK a software
development kit which we haven't looked
at yet but we're about ready to um
twilio does have one of those but if you
were looking at one of these that that
didn't this is a great way to get code
um so again check out the API network uh
this Postman API Network it's cool I
think you're ready now uh to use this if
you want to but also feel free to use
the other tools explore the apis in the
in a in a comfortable way wherever you
might be uh uh most comfortable with
because there's all sorts of really
fancy uh tools here on Postman and like
I said there are courses on how to take
full use of all of the things that are
available awesome job diving into all
those tools Postman is a super super
powerful tool and it keeps getting
better every day there are so many
features that we didn't cover we barely
even scratched the surface there's an
entire course out there on it check the
notes for where to see
that we saw how to organize our requests
together into collections as well as
share common and secure values by using
variables we learned how to add
different values to requests both in
form values query strings and headers
and we also saw how to navigate through
various sub resources via clicking URLs
we even saw how to create actual
runnable code from your request while we
were in the twilio documentation you
might have noticed the code examples on
the screen on that page it's possible
the tab between various language
implementations and solutions many
products offer what is known as an SDK
or software development kit or helper
library that allows you to interact with
their product in your native language as
you can see it abstracts away the rest
API completely let's take a look at the
twilio helper library next before that
though just a quick reminder to make
sure that you check the notes on this
video there's a link to a repository of
built out collections that are ready for
you to use there are lots of great apis
to practice with all the tools that we
just looked at are great for accessing
and exploring apis however when it comes
time you're most likely going to want to
write some code now as we saw in Postman
you can actually generate code all
programming languages have some sort of
way of making HTTP requests and as you
know HTTP requests are all we really
need need to interact with rest apis so
writing that sort of code is totally
fine but you'll find that you'll end up
writing a lot of what is known as
boilerplate code by boilerplate I mean
code that is repetitive and almost
always the same just with a few tweaks
many products and services have created
a solution to help you avoid this
problem they are often called helper
libraries or sdks software development
kits they'll be specific to your
programming language these libraries
help make your code more concise and
legible they usually also provide
additional documentation for your editor
which I find super handy let's go check
out some of these helper Library okay so
let's take a look at one of these helper
libraries let's take a look at the first
one that's here so so again I'm in the
docs SMS create a message resource I'm
here under the curl tab currently
remember we did this we went and we saw
how to do this we passed the from the
body and the two we passed in these
environment variables as what this
dollar is and this dollar toio ofok and
their environment variables and it's
also used here in the URL uh so we had
done that we done that with curl now one
of the really nice things um about these
helper libraries is they look very
similar but it's taken away this whole
notion so let's let's go here I'm going
to go to this nodejs now quick word of
warning if JavaScript is new to you um
there is some stuff here that might be a
little confusing and I want this to just
kind of kind of wash over you I want you
to more feel what it feels like as I
explain it and don't be too concerned
with not exactly understanding all of
the things that can happen especially if
you're one of the folks who has the
hello world uh requirement uh please
don't feel like you need to fully
understand all this I will walk through
this code line by line and tell you what
it's doing and it will be familiar to
what we've been doing just in a
programming language that you might not
yet be familiar with so I'll take my
time and you take your time give
yourself some patience in fact I'd like
to suggest that if you are in the boat
where you have not written code like
this before that you watch me first and
then come back and do it later we're
going to take advantage of the fact that
we're in a video right you can take me
right back to right right here it take
me back to right here and we can get
started so one of the things that I love
about twilio's documentation is that you
can just copy it and it should work so
this is what was happening when we
created something here right so we
created a a message so this was uh you
get this authenticated client right we
know what that is we authenticate with
our client uh with our with our account
sit in our off token like we've been
doing
and then we're going to do this messages
a client so client. messages there's our
rest client. messages. create and we're
going to pass in the from the body and
the two and it's got all the information
that we know and then there's doing some
of this JavaScript stuff so then we're
going to get a promise back and then
we're going to get access to the message
and uh this console log is going to
print out uh to the screen uh I don't
think we should send a message why don't
we look at the messages that we've done
let's let's do that so I'm going to go
to that example so I'm going to choose
down here this list all messages awesome
so we'll take a look at all of the
messages that are in the account now
what I can do is I can just copy this so
I'm going to copy this and I'm going to
run it on my local machine now I'm just
exploring and this probably happens as
you're looking at apis so typically I
have a folder uh on my computer uh
called scratch and if you want to make
one uh you do makeer scratch just kind
of put this wherever you want to and
then you get into that directory um if
you're doing this uh in a terminal on
Windows there are some instructions in
the notes on how to do exactly that so
now I've got this directory named
scratch now I told you before I was
using visual studio code which I hope
that you have installed um and so I'm
going to do code Dot and if this doesn't
work for you there are instructions on
how to get this installed properly on
your machine what it should do is pop
open my visual studio code directly in
that uh directory so I'm in this
directory here and I'm going to make a
new file here I'm going to call it
explorer. JS because this is typically
what I do so I'm going to come in here
and I am going to paste uh that code
awesome so now I have this code here and
this code is on my local machine um
which is awesome so now now I'm going to
try to make this code run now one thing
that I know for sure that I need to do
is I need to download the helper Library
um so if I wanted to go here I could go
to this node install I happen to know
how to do that so I'm going to go up
here under terminal and I'm going to do
new terminal and Visual Studio code this
is really nice my terminal can actually
run the same terminal that I used to
open it uh is running down here uh in
the bottom and what I'm going to do is
I'm going to use a package manager to
install um the
twilio uh helper Library so I'm going to
say mpm install twio um so mpm is node
package manager um and if you do not
have this if this does not work check
the noes because it means that node is
probably not installed on your computer
computer um and if node is not installed
at your computer there's a great uh walk
through in the notes on how to get node
installed so I now have uh twilio uh
helper Library installed which means
this require twilio statement here is
requiring that
Library remember in rest Fox how there
was an environment and we stored the
account sit and the off token we can do
the same thing on our local machine we
can set up a little environment here and
actually if we go ahead and we click
this filio secure there's some great
examples in here on how you could do
that so one of the things that this
suggests doing um you can see it's for
mac and Linux and different different
shells have do different things um uh if
you run this in your command line you
can set your uh environment variables
and then when you run node it will work
uh I'm going to do I'm going to do this
one so I'm going to copy copy this
here and uh I am going
to uh just paste this we'll paste this
I'll show you show you what it does so
uh I I it's it's saying we want to
export my account Sid and my o token
we're very familiar with these days so
uh we're gonna we're GNA do that let's
let's do this real
quick
so to pop in my account token there I'm
going to go back over uh to my console
scroll down and grab my account here and
then I'm going to paste that and I am
going to go and grab my off token and I
am going uh to paste that so again I got
to that
oops accidentally pasted my off token in
the wrong line there so I know that it
started with a four and I'm going to
paste it down here where it says your
off token so basically what this is
doing is this is writing a new file that
will have this information I'll show you
that here in a second so there's there's
my um it's going to write these two
lines I'll show you I'll show you what
that looks like so I'm going to uh it's
going to create a new file twio IM and
it's going to appin that that's what
this double-- twio IM and then it's
going to source that which means uh put
run that uh environment variable so uh
if all is working well now if I say uh
Echo and I can do twio
account Sid um we can see that I have
that available and that created this
file here called twio IM and you can see
there is my account sit in my token
which is nice because now this code uh
works it should be working using this
and in fact if all is going right so
I've I've got node installed I in I
installed the helper Library um I put my
account
Sid uh from the console into this twio
IM and then I did this final command
here the source twio IM which will run
that file and put those uh variables
into my environment variables uh and as
I showed you that they were working so
so let's go ahead let's do node explore
so what's going to happen let's take a
look really quick I'll show you let's
see let's make sure we got it working
cool we did so so uh let's walk the code
really quick so this is pasted straight
from the uh straight from those docs so
we're getting a client back um from this
required twio this is a twilio library
and when you get the twio library if you
pass it in account Sid and an off token
it'll automatically create a brand new
rest client for you right so this is a
client that you're able to use to hit
the rest API at twilio and because it
knows who you are it's able to access
stuff on your half so very similar to
what we're doing with the curl but this
client we can use this multiple times um
it will always be authentic so we're
saying of all of the messages we want to
list them all right so we want to get a
list of all of the messages actually not
all of them only 20 of those um so let's
go ahead I'm going to just we know that
we haven't sent 20 I'm going to get rid
of this so you can kind of just see this
other style here so we're going to say
of those uh we're going to do this list
and then I'm going to bring this back a
little bit here so you can kind of
see let's change the structure of this a
little bit so we'll say client uh
messages and then we're going to do a
list on those now the way that the way
that this works is um this is
asynchronous so JavaScript is
asynchronous and if JavaScript is new to
you you probably haven't encountered Its
asynchronous Behavior what we're going
to go over here might very well be
overwhelming but it'll make sense
someday if you stick with it I promise
now I've added notes but but really
please please please please do not let
this stress you out I just want this to
go over your mind about what's happening
here and it's important to understand
because our client here this these list
methods are asynchronous that which
means that it's going to go and run off
and do some things and then it's going
to come back when that comes back it's
going to uh run this code so this is how
a promise works so it's it's going to
say then after go and make that request
then give me the messages and just so
you what's what's kind of strange about
that is if you're you're probably used
to code uh working like this so I'm
going to write out to the screen that's
this console log I'm going to say
starting starting program and we should
see that line print now you might think
that this is going to print um it's
going to run this and then go but if you
you I'll show you here if I do this
console log and I say uh Gathering uh
message log
um what what you'll see is it's going to
say this this Line's going to start but
immediately it's going to go to the next
line so let's do that let's run that one
more
time I didn't save it so of course it
won't do anything so you can see this
little dot here in Visual Studio it
didn't save so I'm going to save that
run that one more time here we go and
you'll see right away it says starting
program Gathering message log so it it
ran this but then it went down to here
so it did not wait because this is
asynchronous what's Happening Here is
asynchronous
and what's happening is client message
list returns a promise now it's a
promise that in the future there will be
a value and that value is messages and
so the way that you write that code is
this then waights it it defines a
function here and as soon as this is
done it will run this function as soon
as they come back it will run the
function so that's what happened right
so it came it started it then ran the
function and when I say function you
might not have seen before but in
JavaScript you can uh make a function uh
I'm going to put parentheses here so
it's a little bit more clear these are
the parameters for the function and this
fat arrow is saying this is what happens
when the function runs this like little
they call it the fat Arrow it's kind of
cute right so it's an equal sign and
then a greater than it's a it's called a
fat arrow and that's a way of quickly
defining a function and so you can see
here um there's another one here that's
doing it as well um so it can be a
little bit uh um uh Messy as you're see
all these pins that we're looking at
it's kind of kind of hard to understand
and read if this is your first time
looking at that I totally feel for
you and so this messages that comes
through here is an array so so what was
very nice is it came across this
messages list this is an array it was a
a JavaScript array by itself they have
this method called for each on it and it
will let you Loop through each of the
values that are in an array um and
you'll notice that the object that was
inside of that array has some properties
so what happened was the client went and
made the request made the HTTP request
it got back that Json that we saw let me
let me just go show you one more time uh
let's make sure that we're looking at
the right thing here so so we we we we
this is the same code that we just saw
this Json was returned right this Json
was returned but what the client did for
us was it inflated these into messages
right so these are this is this this is
a string of things and it came back Json
on but I'm able to actually work with
each of these messages as if they're an
object so let's look look at that again
so uh list returned this object this
array of messages and each one of those
um in that array I'm able to use an
array method for each and this message
is an actual object that has a property
called Sid um so again if that is all
new JavaScript terms to you don't don't
worry too much about it basically we WI
got the messages and we showed the
messages that we got that's what this is
saying one of the things that I want you
to be careful of as you're looking at
promises and you might see this
sometimes as you work with apis because
often times apis that you hit are going
to be asynchronous like this you might
see that uh you need to be able to you
might run into an error and what's what
might happen is it might get swallowed
in fact let me cause one to happen so I
here it's supposed to say off token I'm
just going to put in uh um my luggage
the password to my luggage 1 2 3 4 5 six
so that is not my account Sid um that is
going in there so I have the wrong
account Sid so I'm gonna say that hey
this is the client this is what how I
want you to authenticate and it's going
to go to try to make this and it's going
to fail let's see what happens when it
fails well I didn't save it so let's
save it again boy that's a lesson that I
really hit in home you got to make sure
you save your file or the code doesn't
run so let's do it again um and you'll
notice that I didn't get any error at
all and that can be confusing that that
is something that is very strange
because obviously something wrong
happened I didn't get any of the
messages back but it doesn't look like I
I had any problem so what's happening
because this is running asynchronously
this then never runs right we never get
a chance to run this because this list
method method didn't actually uh finish
working so one of the things you always
want to make sure that you do is to
every promise you can catch and you can
catch an error and I'm going to make a
fat Arrow cuz I'm I'm going to have a
function happen here that says console.
error ER RR okay so now I'm going to
print that out I'm going to print out
the error let's run that again let's see
what happens ah now we see the error and
you'll see that sometimes uh this is uh
what comes back is there was an
authentication error right and we got a
very specific error on this 2003 and uh
it will help us kind of look at what's
happening oh here great this is right my
off token is wrong the wrong combination
of accounts sit in off token exactly
that is what has happened um so cool use
of uh things there I'm going to put this
back so that we have uh things
working uh so this was off the token and
I can still leave my error in there I'm
not going to hit an error so it's not
going to happen so a promise has a then
and also has a catch right so uh let's
do that so I'm GNA run that one more
time and save it wow y'all I got to get
better at saving here we go there we go
so now we're back to working again
awesome all right I want to show you a
little bit of a different way that
JavaScript can work uh asynchronously
that you might also see um and this is
really syntactical sugar it's called
async await and if you just uh wait a
bit it will all sync in I promise that's
a there was three jokes in that one that
was a that was a hat trick of a joke all
right so here we go so um the way that
it works the way that this works is you
can say that a a function is going to be
asynchronous and we want this to run um
uh asynchronously so I was thinking
we're getting ready to start using our
number in an application and to get
there we need to clean it up we have a
bunch of weird messages in there that
aren't going to be relevant to the
messages that we have so I'm going to
make a a new function and I'm going to
call it uh Delete all messages okay and
when you define a function you can kind
of put uh the this is the parameters
that it takes we're going to say that
there are no parameters and then I'm
going to run this
function so um while this is an a
synchronous function I can actually make
it look more uh like it is in line so it
can kind of run the way that we want it
to so I'm going to say const messages
equals a wait so now I have because the
function itself is asynchronous because
I've used this here I can use this
keyword a08 and I'm going to say
client dot uh messages. list and so now
I think this is a little bit more clear
right so this is basically doing the
same thing right these messages um are
the same messages that were coming into
this this function but now it's out on
this side so I have this variable that's
called messages so um and that's an
array right and it's and I could do I
could do this exact same thing here and
I could list that uh the same way but
let's let's go a little bit further so
I'm going to say for each of the
messages for each message that is of the
messages array
so these are those uh inflated messages
that we saw uh one of the cool things um
that you're able to do with the client
is the the the object that's returned
back has actually has some properties on
them and one of those properties that it
has is called delete uh before we do
that I'm going to make sure that let's
do a warning uh here real quick so I'm
going to say console. War we're going to
say would have deleted I'm just going to
use if you use these back ticks this is
kind of a neat trick you can use this
back tick to do string interpolation so
say would have deleted message. Sid so
again that's the string identifier of
that so would have deleted message. Sid
so and uh we will close that function
out all right and now I'm going to call
that
function and this you know of course
that's how we we call it and this is
would actually be a promise this would
be very similar so we could do this we
could do a
uh in fact let's do it we'll say then
and uh if you wanted to call a make a
function that has no parameters because
I'm not returning anything right I'm not
returning anything from that function
I'm just going to say console.log and
I'm going to write done and I will put
all of these this code into the notes so
you uh can also copy and paste it if you
want to and I'm going to do the same
thing that I did before catch the error
and all will do console. error and now
if you do the console is you know of
course it's running when the program
runs it's running out to the screen and
there's different levels that you can do
and error is one of those uh and if I
just pass the error that happened there
so um I'm going to warn that we're going
to would have deleted the messages but
let's let's take a look um at what
happened so I'm going to get rid I'm
going to keep the starting program here
right so we're can do uh starting
program and then it's going to do delete
all messages it's going to call that and
then when it's all done it will say done
I'm going to give get rid of uh what we
had here okay so we have delete all
messages uh it's going to go and it's
going to get a list of all the messages
it's going to Loop through each one of
those messages and uh when it is done
it's we're right now we're going to warn
that it's uh would have deleted it and
this is uh what we're eventually going
to do because there's a function that's
available to it all right so I'm G to
save that and then going to run it let's
see what
happens okay so it would have deleted
some of our SIDS and again this is the
image this is the the mm means that it
was the MMS which is the one with the
picture and the rest of the SM that we
have so I think I am ready to do this uh
I hope that you are ready to do this as
well um again this code uh should you
want it is available in uh the repo
because you want to run this because you
want to delete these messages um so
let's let's I'm in say say of would have
deleted I'm going to say deleting and
then uh here we go I'm going to save
that I'm going to run it and so so
message the message object that's coming
back from this client is really has
enough information to make another API
call to delete itself right because um
because the object itself knows how to
do that the library is made an object
that is smart enough to be able to call
delete on it and it feels like um it's
just working that way but it's really
making a rest API call to make a delete
request it's pretty cool right here we
go uh message. Delete is not a function
uh what I meant was actually remove uh
so the the function name is remove on
the message so here we go so um and you
saw that there was an error right that
was the error that just happened that
good thing I put that catch in there
otherwise we would have thought it
worked so here we go so we note explore
move and said deleting deleting deleting
we deleted all of those um so remove is
the name of the function that's there
but it is doing a delete uh making a
delete call cool so we have now cleaned
out and if we try to run it again you'll
see that there's no messages left for it
to delete awesome now if you have just
watched that and we're very confused
let's walk this last bit and then I want
you to rewind it one more time so I've
made a function that is asynchronous and
that function is called delete all
messages and because it's asynchronous
I'm able to use this await which will
return this this client. messages. list
returns a promise
okay but um a promise of the future but
because it's being awaited it's going to
return it right here in line then I'm
going to Loop through each of those
messages and because that message came
back from the API and an object was
created thanks to our helper Library
here I have a me I have a method on that
message called remove and it will
actually go and do the next level the
next level of delete there for me so
it's really nice this object feels like
it would uh feel like if you were
writing JavaScript code it would feel
this way uh but behind the scenes we
know that it's doing this API calls and
the client library has abstracted all of
that away from us uh and if now if you
go and you take a look let's go back
really quick let's take a look there's
other helper libraries so if python
happens to be your your your language
there's how you do it so it's client.
messages. list and for record and
messages and you print the record s and
you can see that the code looks a little
bit different in all the languages that
you go through but it's also kind of
similar and so that's really nice about
the standardness of a rest API is that
the helper library is producing code
that feels the same uh in each way
because the library is kind of the same
and you'll you'll find that as you use
other apis um and they have helper
libraries they will they will mimic the
way that the rest API looks so I
realized that was a lot I don't want you
to get hung up if you feel like you
can't completely understand what that is
in the next unit what we're going to do
is we're going to go into more deep
things and I know you can do this so so
there this code is there and also if you
feel like you want me to go back and
explain that again please please please
please pause me slow me down let me walk
through those uh different things but
don't feel like you need to be able to
read this I want you to just
conceptually understand that you're
using a helper Library that's
abstracting away all of the HTTP a API
thing things that we were doing with
curl and we were doing with rest Fox
this is just doing it in code and it's
doing it for you a lot of the magic is
gone uh and hidden and tucked away and
it just feels like you're actually
working with these objects that's the
power of the abstraction awesome did you
see how the helper libraries are all
similar yet match the development
workflow and style of each language this
is one of the benefits of helper
libraries in general they abstract away
the HTTP client connection and the
boiler plate necessary to make rest API
calls they also behave as you expect
them to behave it feels natural the way
that we were able to delete from the
resource itself helps to unlock another
rest API constraint scavenger hunt item
and that one is uniform design now this
constraint has four subsections one of
which we just discussed resource
manipulation through representations
because enough information was included
in the response it was clear for us how
we could modify and delete the resource
another subsection in here is resource
identification and requests that's the
uis that are included and we've seen
that but because the uis are included we
know how to get and manipulate specific
resources uniform use of the HTTP verbs
is pretty powerful we just wrote some
scripts that make use of helper
libraries these libraries are super
handy for automation based tasks or
batch scripting which is like making a
whole bunch of calls at once now while
we're talking about this we should cover
another common tool for talking to
external apis and that one is CLI
command line interface there it is again
command line interfaces can be used to
make API calls from an executable on
your machine more and more these are
showing up for tools that require
authentication and do a bunch of
different services this concept is
popular amongst Cloud providers where
setting something up needs to be done
quickly from the command line check the
notes for more another common place
where you'll use helper libraries is
from within applications that you're
building building let's get to the final
unit of this course and Implement an
external API into an existing web
application you've got this o we're here
I love this part the building part we're
going to build a web application that
shows off a set of User submitted photos
for a specific prompt but here's where
our app is going to stick out from all
the rest we're going to let our users
submit their photos and captions via a
text message what this will enable us to
do is put up signs and billboards in
physical spaces that says text a photo
to this number and then our site will
gather those on a web page and display
them now you're probably wondering two
things right now the first one is
probably wait what are those photos
they're going to be texting and that's a
great question we're going to be
building this application so it can be
dynamic so you can Define whatever you
want like text me a photo of your dog
send us a photo of the view out your
window snap me a pick of the best
impersonation of me I I don't know
anything along those lines now secondly
you're probably wondering wait a second
you said I didn't need to know how to
code if you already know how to make a
website this part might not have faced
you but if building a website is outside
of your Learning Journey thus far no
sweat I've got it set up and we're going
to take our time we're going to focus on
making things work using this API all
right let's do this okay so I have a
template here in the notes uh in the uh
unit 3 video one we have this
index.html which is our web application
um if you come in here you can scroll
you can kind of see things here we've
we've the app is called pickle where you
get to pick your picks Peter pick the
pickle pickle that sort of fun joke
there and then we're going to click this
RAW button right here we're going to get
a hold of this
raw and I am going to uh highlight
everything and use the magical uh
developer command C copy and then I'm
going to come over to uh back to my
scratch on my visual studio code I'm
going to make a new file I'm going to
call that
index.html hypertext mark language right
and I'm going to paste that right here
so now I have that code locally on my
machine if you are a git user you could
definitely check this out and have your
own uh version of this if you wanted to
but that that's a good way to get this
here locally because we're just going to
explore around here just for a little
bit let's take a look at this file uh as
it exists this is something that might
happen to you um as a developer who
knows now about apis they might say hey
I've got this template um and I would
love for you to be able ble to set it up
to make the the API work so the first
thing to do um if you want to look at an
index uh uh file locally on your
computer you could set up a web server
I've made it so we don't need to have a
web server um so we can just go ahead
I'm going to go to my terminal I'm going
to um do a new terminal
here I'm going to open that up and uh
I'm just going to say open index.html
now what that's going to do um uh in my
Mac uh is going to open this up for
Windows take a look and see how to do
this exactly but what this will do it
was will update my uh my pickle here so
so you can see this is this user scratch
um and then you know my whatever it is
it's in my my directory there and uh
this is what's happening there's some
some some nice kitty photos there I'll
show you how that's working and if you
uh click into one of them you get a nice
little Gallery here and you can switch
between the different kitties you can
see the text that the user uh submitted
that's kind of where we're going with
this that's what we're planning on doing
very nice setup uh simple one little
pager application uh because I'm using
some uh apis to to be able to do that
here locally um I'm using uh remember
apis not not web apis but I'm using a
view is the framework that I'm using I'm
using a framework called View and it has
an API and I'm also using this silent
box which is allowing us to do that uh
popup and it also has an API let's take
a little bit of a look here so I'm going
to move I'm going to move a little bit
slow through this um just so in case
this is your first time seeing something
like
this um I've got some setup here in this
head tag you can see this is HTML this
is the head tag there's some setup so
I'm using View and I'm also using silent
box and I've got some very minimal
styling um it's not my my forte uh and
often times um you're given a template
like this so you're given hey here's a a
working thing I would love for you to
get some uh apis in there um so the the
body of the app has this you'll see
notice this little mustache mustache and
it says call to action so um in view
this is part of their API is if you use
this for a template it will be replaced
with something of from The View objects
data so you can see here there's this
call to action and that's what this is
and this is why I could change this and
make this say whatever I wanted to say
it would be here so whatever we decide
to do with our apps whatever kind of uh
picks that we're trying to collect that
would be uh where we would change that
and then you also see here there's this
silent box and it's doing a gallery and
the way that that works is we pass in in
this uh gallery from again from this
view objects Gallery you don't
necessarily need to worry too much about
this but I wanted to show you um that
there is this is how view works it's a
front end framework and it provides an
API where if I give it a function called
data and whatever is in here will get
returned uh to it and then there's some
more uh I can Define some methods on The
View object one of those methods that
I've defined is called load images part
of the API that view uh creates is there
is a life cycle method called mounted
which means that when the application is
ready and it has been mounted onto your
HTML through the JavaScript it will call
this function so it's going to call this
load images function and this load
images function you'll notice it's an
async uh uh image and I've got some
to-dos in here this is someplace where
you might be communicating back and
forth with uh people uh as you're
working uh together on a project so use
the messaging API to use uh submitted
photos and also create a web- based API
that matches us expected response so
that's what we're going to do over the
next couple videos here uh so what we
see in the start here is there's this
gallery and it is an array and it's got
um some stuff from this there's a
website called Place kit that I used
here so you can get different versions
of K kitties here and there's a
description and there's an ALT tag which
is important because uh for for
accessibility reasons this is what it
will say on the picture so uh
that is what is happening to be able to
make that
work um so we we now have our app here
uh locally and we can change things so
um one of the things one of the photos
um that I want to do uh I love to get
photos of burritos from around town so
I'm going to change this I'm going to
say submit me a photo of your burritos
and I'm going to save that file so see
it's not saved I'm going to save it when
I go back to my file there when I
refresh it you can see that it says
burrito
what are you going to want to gather why
don't you go ahead and change that uh
change that to whatever it is that
you're wanted to gather as we build this
project through and of course you know
you see that you can change that however
so make sure that it's downloaded make
sure that you can change that that you
can change this file and it opens uh
locally on your machine cool and so now
we have a little smattering of apis here
already so we have a a web we have HTML
working here we have this View and this
view API has a very specific API that's
doing this mounted uh here but remember
it is actually an API and we're going to
use a web-based API uh to be able to to
get this information and we're going to
do that here in just a bit now that we
got our file all working let's deploy it
and by that I mean let's get it up on
the public internet so everyone can see
it that is of course after you take a
quick break
[Music]
we're going to get our web page up on
the Internet so others can see it and
this has gotten much easier as time has
progressed you used to have to set up a
server like a physical computer buy a
domain name and configure it to point to
your machine you had to figure out where
to to host like to where to locate your
server so that it was always on and
arguably the hardest part after it was
live you used to have to watch over it
in case too many people came to it you
didn't want it to get overloaded you
wanted it to scale up and be able to
handle the traffic those servers are
still around but these days you don't
really need to worry about them too much
now I'm sure that you've heard the term
the cloud and the colloquium the cloud
is just other people's computers well
let's talk a bit about serverless
serverless is just other people's
servers it removes all those previous
things that we had to worry about and it
offloads your
concerns I can tell by the look on your
face that it's probably better if I just
show you let's get this application
hosted
so we're going to have twilio host our
code for us and that is to say we're
going to have twilio be our web server
that will be use to serve our HTML our
project will be serverless now the way
you do that is by using twilio's
serverless environment which is here
under functions and Assets Now if you
don't have that here if you click
explore products and you come to
developer tools and you come over to
functions and assets you can click this
little pin icon and that will make it
show up here so I am going to create a
new service so I'm going to go functions
and assets services and I'm going to say
create service it could be whatever you
want I'm going to call it pickle like
pick your picks with
pickle Peter Services allow us to group
our functions and assets together for
our application so I'm going to click
next and what's going to happen is we're
going to open up to a very nice IDE that
will allow us to edit our code now a
friendly reminder if you're having a
hard time following along because my
screen looks different than yours you
are using a new and improved experience
so check the notes for what might be
different now traditionally these
Services here are used to power twilio
based applications remember how I said
you could respond programmatically to an
incoming message well functions are a
great way to do just that in fact our
current number has a default response
and we might as well fix it while we're
here here but before we do that let's
get our HTML code up and running so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to grab
code from my local machine and if you
want to you can just grab it for GitHub
check the notes for more on that but I'm
going to go add I'm going to choose
upload file I'm going to find my file my
index.html and I'm going to choose open
now what we're uploading we'd like the
world to be able to see it so I'm going
to choose public and then I'm going to
choose
upload so now this files over here
you'll notice this little Green Dot and
this means that it is not yet deployed
and that is it's not yet available on
the internet in this current state so
let's do that I'm going to do that by
clicking this deploy all button down
here and now we see that it's green and
I'm going to go ahead and choose copy
URL and I'm going to open up a new tab
with that there and we will see that our
site is live except it says burritos and
these are kittens but we're getting
there so uh it's working it's up it's on
the internet I could share this with
people the pickle site is up and running
on twilio's servers one of the things
that I used to have to worry about was
scale like what if I got a whole bunch
of requests to the site would it fall
over what the serverless solution is
doing is allowing me to not need to
worry about any of that anymore twio is
handling all those concerns for me which
is great cuz now I can focus on what I
was building which by the way we need to
handle that reply programmatically right
so the way that twilio does things is
with web hooks now if you haven't
encountered web hooks before I have an
entire course on them that I link to in
the notes web hooks are sometimes called
a reverse API that is instead of you
calling the API the API calls you so
let's configure our number to make use
of the right web hook so I'm going to go
uh back to my number
uh over here if I look under phone
numbers and I do manage I'm going to
hold down uh command or control and
click active numbers I'll open up a new
tab nice little hack to keep your screen
open here uh so I've got my numbers here
and if I come in here to configure
it what happens is I'm going to scroll
down so here's the voice section and
then here's the messaging section and it
says when a message comes in to this web
hook and it sends to
this URL here it does a post to this URL
here so the way that twilio makes use of
web hooks can be thought of like this
you know when I hit uh this URL right
this URL in my browser my browser
doesn't care about what's happening at
that endpoint it could have been
anything any web server like Express
Django a Java Ser it it doesn't matter
what matters is that what was returned
from my server was HTM
or hyper text markup language my server
responds with HTML and my browser
renders the page now the same is true
with twio someone is going to text our
twilio number and twio is going to send
a request to an endpoint in this case
this endpoint here it doesn't matter
what is happening on the other side as
long as it returns twiml or twillo
markup language they look very similar
HTML and
twiml twilio will be able to
your application so we could set up a
new web server to host this application
that returns twiml or we could just use
a twilio function and like I said
earlier that is what these are commonly
used for so let's let's pop back to our
service so I'm going to come here I'm
going to add a new function and I'm
going to name this function incoming
message that's what we're going to do
we're going to handle an incoming
message and there is some very nice
default boiler plate that is commented
that comes through so boilerplate is
code that's provided that's usually the
most common thing that you're going to
be doing and in this case it is it's
boiler plate for how to respond to an
incoming phone call it's kind of like
the hello world of uh voice applications
but we're going to be building a
messaging application so we'll need to
tweak this just a bit now I've put this
code I'm about to show you into the
notes so I don't want you to feel like
you have to type this all out or even
fully understand every line I will step
you through it first though let me walk
you through this function just a bit so
twio functions all export a a thing
called a Handler and that Handler takes
a function that takes some parameters
context event and call
back context here is an object that
holds information about the function
that's running like it knows the domain
it knows the name of the function and
the event here you can kind of think of
this like a web request in in most
Frameworks and if you haven't seen a
framework before this is kind of the way
that information is passed into your web
application uh so so this is the event
will hold everything about the text
message that was incoming because that's
what twilio does twilio is going to pass
that information through here and for
instance that message will have the two
it'll have from and body and again
because when the text message comes in
we are going to point our phone number
to this function so twilio will post the
information here it will call our
function instead of us writing code that
checks if a new message was added over
and over again twilio is going to call
us the API is going to call us via a web
hook web hooks are pretty cool uh check
the notes and then finally there's this
call back uh object here which is how we
send information out of the function
it's actually a function so we have this
call back uh this is the errors that
might have happen and then this is what
gets returned and here's that twiml
twillo markup language so I'm going to
get rid of a couple of these lines here
these are sort of demo lines I'm going
to get rid of that and I want you to be
able to see what's coming into the
message so I'm going to start up here
I'm going to do a
console.log and what what this does is
when the function runs uh if we want to
we can see the message it will show up
down here so uh let's say that we got an
incoming
message and uh it
was incoming message and we'll just do a
call in and then I'm going to use this
dollar this St of string interpolation
so I have the event object and on it
there is a property called body with a
capital B so that's being passed in
there so uh when the function runs we
will see that the message came in
because twio is going to pass that
message and we'll see it there and we're
just going to say thanks when somebody
sends Us in so we don't really need to
do anything with this message but you
might want to filter it or handle things
differently based on what they said in
the message and and you totally could do
that but you'd probably also want to
check the photo that came in in was
actually a burrito or something not in
AES you could do that and there are apis
for that but that's a little out of
scope so instead of a voice response
we're actually going to return uh a
messaging response and there's a little
helper Library here right so a little
helper library for twiml uh and it has
this twiml
object and uh before it was doing say
which is text to speech so if you you
wired this up it would say hello world
in like a computery but actually pretty
good sounding voice the days but I'm
going to change this to be a message cuz
that's what we want to return we want to
return a message and we want to say uh
thanks for
your submission right we want to want to
thank them there we can also send any
sort of emoji here let's see if maybe a
camera that sounds yeah that's nice
thanks for your submission and so what's
happening here is this object it's a
fluid API it uh means that it doesn't
return anything you kind of tweak it and
and it builds as things go uh on it so
you'll notice that this isn't returning
anything I'm modifying this object and
then uh when I send it out at the end
that's how how it goes out so let me
let's just let me show you what that
object looks like so again I'll do one
of these con
console.log and use the back tick and
we'll say twiml so twilio markup
language was uh Twi and you'll see that
it looks a lot like HTML uh there are
some rules to it but we don't need to
learn them all right now so I'm going to
save this and uh just like before you'll
notice that this is gray it hasn't been
deployed so I'm going to click deploy
all and while that's building I'm going
to head back to my phone number page and
I'm going to refresh it so on my phone
number page I need to change my message
down here it says when a when a message
comes in we want it to be a function
that is in the pickle service that's uh
done in the UI and we want to choose
incoming message which it hasn't
finished deploying yet just finished
deploying one more time time Let me
refresh that page so that shows up for
us uh we're going to go to uh when a
message comes in it's going to be a
function and it's on the pickle service
for this UI and we want to do incoming
message and if we do save all right so
we should be all wired up I'm going to
click uh clear logs here and I'm going
to turn uh live logs on you can see that
this says live logs on when it's ready
I'm going to clear the logs one more
time and what I'm going to do now is I'm
going to send a message in and we should
see this we should see what what I send
in and uh we should see the twiml that
was sent back and I should get a
response back so let me let me send that
message here let me send this text all
right so oh check out this I have this
beautiful picture of a burrito I love
when burritos can stand up by themselves
and this is an awesome one I'm going to
send this in so check out this beautiful
burrito little Emoji I'm going to send
that through and we should see here in
the live logs we should see the message
come through there we go so look at this
beautiful burrito um and this is the
twiml that was generated so you can see
it's like tag based so there's a
response and there's a closing response
and there's an opening message and a
closing message thanks for your
submission I don't want you to feel like
you need to learn twiml uh you can do
that later uh if you need to uh but but
this uh works so I got my message back
now remember since we are in trial mode
if somebody else sends in a message to
your phone number they're only going to
get a message back if they're a verified
sender so that is a limit of the trial
API that we're using currently now most
apis have limits there's only so many
calls you can make there's you can only
send to verified numbers there's just
different sort of limits and that's what
we're working with here right now the
limit is that you can only send to
verified numbers uh they can still
submit they just won't get this thanks
for your submission so your phone number
should so when you submit from your
phone number you should get it just like
I did all right so we're looking good we
have our site hosted
and we're handling some missions by
thanking them let's get to some more
cooking now if you're interested in
learning more about applications like
this over the phone check out the notes
for more resources I have an entire
course on this if this pequ your
interest but for now let's get back to
our API now with our ability to host our
own application we can focus on
designing our own API now the great news
is that twilio functions makes it really
straightforward to return Json remember
that's JavaScript object notation the
lingua Fran of the web let's design our
web-based API to return the expected
format and we can make use of twilio's
message Api to get a hold of all the
messages that we received do you see
what I did there get get get it all
right I'm I'm gon get out of here I
can't stop all right let's do this okay
so we're gonna actually write an API and
we already have a spec or a
specification right we need to provide
for this specific plugin this silent box
has this Gallery plugin and it has a
specific API that it defines and that
API looks like this right so remember
we're setting this gallery and we're
setting an array we're setting this
information here so I think we should
start by creating an endpoint that
returns exactly what we have here we
should return an endpoint that does this
that returns this and then we'll move
forward from there this is what I do
when I find myself in a situation when
I'm working on a project with a team of
people I take what they expect in a
template and I return it from an API
this way they can keep working and I can
keep working too so let's do that I'm
going to create a new function so I'm
going to choose add add function and I
can name this whatever I want and uh I
suppose we should be clear right we're
going to make an API we're actually
going to make one so slash API and then
I suppose we should probably say what
it's going to be so we'll do a PIX API
here right
and I'm going to press enter and that
will get me my boilerplate code uh of
which I am going to get rid of
everything so uh thank you for the help
we're not actually returning twiml this
time we're actually going to return an
object and uh what I'll do is I'll copy
the hardcoded array from this index file
here I'll come in here and I'll copy
this hardcoded now hardcoded means uh it
is just like in the code this way right
there's no way that this is going to be
dynamic I'm going to change that uh here
I'm going to paste that in here I'm
going to name it the same thing so I'm
going to create a new variable called
gallery and I am going to just paste
that hardcoded code there there we go
and then I'm going to call this uh
Gallery so again I have an array that's
what this this bracket here is this
array of these objects that's what these
objects are these these uh uh mustaches
they open up and the objects have these
properties here and these are
representing the picks that uh that
plug-in requires and now I'm going to
use this callback function to return
that Gallery array one really nice thing
about this toio function is that if I
pass it an object like I did it'll
automatically return Json to anybody who
requests the URL so let's do that so I'm
going to go ahead I'm going to save this
and I'm going to deploy it
now one thing to note by default it was
actually protected that's what this
little uh key lock thing means here so
I'm going to click this and I'm going to
change this to be public cuz we actually
want anybody to be able to see it not
just twilio um so this is this is what
we're going to do I'm going to change
this to be public and then I'm going to
choose deploy all and you'll see that
it's gray and when it's ready it will
turn green for us um and so I want to go
I'm going to copy this URL so I have
this URL already and when it's green
when this goes uh to be deployed so it's
still deploying you can see it's
deploying and you you'll know down here
um when uh it'll say build completed and
it will say deployed so it's deployed so
I copied that URL I am going to go hit
that URL and let's see what we get back
awesome we got it so we got the the
kitty descriptions and I blow this up a
little bit here this is this is Json and
automatically built this for us right it
put the it's in the right format uh
which is very nice in fact we could
probably take this and why don't we
we'll go over to uh the Thunder client
and take a look at what's going on over
there so I'm going to come back to my
thunder client I'm going to make a new
request and I'm going to hit to do a get
to this this API that we just built and
check it out it comes back it comes back
with 200 okay and here's the the stuff
that's coming back there's even some
headers in here uh oh sorry some some if
we look at the response we can look at
the response headers over here and we
can see uh that the the content type was
set to application Json
twily always sends back the shenanigans
none which I
love so now what we could do is we could
give this URL to the team that's working
on making the front end you know that
that View application they could wire it
up they could take this and as long as
we match the same format and what we
return that is as long as our API
maintains the same contract everything
should just work so that's pretty
awesome right so let's move on to the
next part I'm going to comment out uh
this B so let's let's go ahead let's
give it a uh we we're going to go ahead
and make this an empty array right so
that's how you make an empty array and
I'm going to comment this out so that we
have it so that we can kind of look at
what the format is as we build stuff
here so I'm going to comment that out
and in fact I don't think I need uh the
second one I'll just get that first one
there get us some space there
awesome so now let's use the text
messages that were sent in our incoming
messages so
we're going to write some JavaScript
code now if you aren't quite fluent yet
in JavaScript remember that is okay and
we've all been there and we all all of
us I guarantee you everybody watching
this understands that what you're going
through can be challenging it's a new
language I want you to try to follow
along conceptually and I want you to
take your time and I want you to take
advantage of being in a video-based
course this code that we are going to
write will be available in the notes and
I will walk us through it and then I'll
go over it again translating it into the
concepts that we've covered okay are you
ready let's do this so twilio functions
have another great
feature I can get access to a rest
client to the twilio rest client and
authenticated a twilio rest client from
the context object so context get twio
client now remember that is uh going to
be using my off token and my account sit
and it's on this context it just
automatically is authenticated which is
really powerful cuz now I can get access
to my thing because this function is
running as me right so that's why it has
access to that information so remember
we want to get a hold of all of the
messages that were sent in so we're
going to use the API to do
that um and remember we could have
multiple phone numbers so I'm going to
get the messages that were just sent to
this phone number so I'm going to await
cuz remember it returns a promise so
client .
messages. list and I need to do the ones
that are specifically to my twilio
number so that's
816 5433 and I'm pretty sure that's
right I'm going to look one more time at
my uh oh there it is uh yeah that's it
so that's my my my phone number there
51685 433 you could go go there it's
also on your console remember down here
at the bottom 561 816 5433 that's what I
wanted I put that there um and in fact
you know that's something uh you can
have multiple numbers and that might be
something that you want to uh store
possibly in an environment variable so I
think we should probably do that let's
let's do that so uh I'm going to take uh
this this number here and I'm going to
store that here you can see in the
functions and the services here we have
this environment variables let's add to
that and you'll see here actually add my
credentials my account S my off token to
inv so that's why context get twio
client works is because we've checked
this if not it won't work so uh but it's
checked by default so we're going to do
twilio number and that value is going to
be that and now um in my code what's rad
is I can use that like so I can say
context. twio number I can access
anything that is in those environment
variables that way and it's now it's in
this code and now when I share this code
uh you won't need to do that you will
need to set your environment variable
though awesome so um and uh now what
we've got to access to the well actually
first we set a wait and we need to make
sure that this function is marked a sync
um so that that's required right in
order to make this work so now it's
going to get the messages it's going to
return the messages and now we're going
to Loop through those messages um one of
my favorite ways of doing that is this
four of loop so we're going to say four
message of messages
uh and for each one of those messages
we're going to go through some things so
um one thing you might not have thought
about before is that when you send a
message you can put multiple photos I I
think typically Whenever I send when I
just send one or then I send another
message and another message you can
actually add multiple pictures before
you send it so um let me let's do that
let's get a hold of all of the pictures
that are available um so we'll say comp
pix uh we'll call we'll call our
variable called pix
right uh for picture short for picture
and we'll say await message now uh the
message object that came back from this
this API now we know that this was an
API call but it is an object and that
object actually has access to these sub
resources which was media which we we we
walked through this before remember
there's the media URL and we grabbed
that media URL we looked at all of them
that were available this is basically
doing that same thing and we're going to
get all of the media that is available
all right so we have that we have the
message we have all of the pictures of
that message and so for each of those
pictures right so each of the
pictures we need to actually need to
declare the variable just to be better
there so we'll say for const pick of
picks right so we're going to make a new
variable called pick looping through
each one of these that came back from
from this array right so so um for all
of the the messages for all of the
pictures in the messages now what we're
going to do is we're going to add that
to this Gallery so this is an empty
array but we're going to dynamically add
to it and the way that you add to an
array of course is with uh gallery. push
we're going to push a value onto the end
of that
array and we know what this is supposed
to look like right it looks like this it
looks we have the source right so Source
here SRC is short for Source um just
from Forever in the internet uh so image
source SRC and uh I know um from from my
my notes uh and I'm going to pop over
here real quick um that that uh this
this has uh the media resource has this
thing called a URI on it and it's
relative to this
htps twilio.com
so uh let's paste that so it's relative
to that which means that if I'm going to
display it I need to let our people know
if I'm going to give it a full URL which
it it requires right it requires this
full URL so it's got the the front part
of it and then I'm going to use the pick
as a property called URI which we saw
and remember what happens um is it has
this content type if if we want to it
without an extension uh the media is
returned now I know that by default uh
this is going to give me this pi. URI is
going to end in Json so I want to
replace that I'm going to use the string
method to replace uh the Json right I
don't I don't want that Json I want it
to be no extension at all um so I'm
going to use this empty string so I'm
going to replace the end of what this
pick was uh with Json I'm going to
replace that with an empty string which
will remove it essentially right that's
what we're going to do now I'm going to
do a comma because I want to do more I
want to have the description I want to
put uh the description here as required
uh because that's what the little text
is at the bottom that it says and that's
whatever they texted in in their message
right so I'm in this Loop I'm looping
through each one of the picks but I'm
also I have access to this message CU
I'm in this inner loop here right so I
still have access to the outer loop
which is
message. body right so those are
inflated um so that's whatever the text
was that somebody sent it in and uh we
should also we'll make that the alt text
too so alt tags are handy for
um accessibility reasons there there are
people you might not think about this
but there are people who um are going to
use your application that are using it
without um being able to see some some
people are vision impaired and uh they
have screen readers and uh alt tags are
awesome for that you always want to make
sure that you make things accessible for
people who can't see what it is that
you're providing and ALT tags are an
excellent way of doing that this is just
one way that you can make uh your
application more accessible and
everybody wins by it and then finally
I'm just going to grab this last
thumbnail width here 200 pixels uh we
can see later if people want something
different than that uh what to do so so
our Gallery array for each one of those
pictures it's going to add to it right
so so it's going to go and it's going to
add each one of those and we're still
going to return that gallery and I think
y'all I think we got it let's let's
let's walk it one more
time okay so we're going to come in here
and we are going to use the context that
was passed in uh to this function when
it was called so when somebody hits this
URL this function is going to run and
it's going to know it's going to have
access to those environment variables
that we saw it's going to get access to
an authenticated client and that client
is logged in with my account Sid and my
off token and we're going to create an
empty array this Gallery thing here
we're going to create an empty array
it's a list that we're going to populate
we're going to take our messages and
we're going to push them into this array
so that uh it has the format that is
expected which is right here we're going
to turn what our messages look like into
this so that uh later we can use them
that way so the way that we do that is
we use this client this client is a rest
client and it's going to hit the
messages endpoint and we know that it's
going to do a get but it's been
abstracted for us so just we're just say
hey list all of the numbers that were
sent to this twio number and those are
this this context here again this is
passed in and the twio number is set in
my environment variables over here so
we're say because because you could have
multiple right you could have multiple
twilio phone numbers so we want to say
only the ones that were sent to so we're
very we're being be very specific we're
querying messages that were sent to this
number not from this number but to this
number and we're going to Loop through
each one of those messages and for each
one of those messages um the object
that's returned from this has this
property called media which lets us get
to a sub resource and you remember in
the Json uh there was a there's a link
to this and we could go and query this
ourselves but we don't need to because
the API has wrapped that for us it's
very nice it's nice abstraction and
we're we're going to get the list of
those picks and again this is
asynchronous we're we're using this um
we're waiting for it to come back we're
waiting for these values to come back so
once we have these picks we're going to
Loop through each of the pck and we are
going to push out um a source that has
this it we know that they all need to
start with API twilio.com because the
URI itself this URI here is relative
meaning it doesn't contain the forward
slash of this so um we're going to say
this is where it lives this is the API
call that we want you to do um to get
this content is api. twitter.com
whatever is in the pick you U cuz that's
unique to each one of the pictures and
that URI comes with a Json at the end of
it so if you look here
um let's see if we if we look here we
can see that it it ends in this dot Json
right and we want to get rid of that
because when you do get rid of it what
happens is it Returns the actual picture
we did that I don't know if you remember
that earlier we did that so um so that
will be removed and then we're going to
use the message and the message is
coming from here right so the message
for each of the these messages we're
going to get the message. body and the
description and the alt tag for it the
alternate text uh we're going to set and
that's from that this is the required
for remember this looks exactly like
what happened here so we are returning
that uh here and it should return Json
I'm going to save it we are going to
deploy it we are going to cross our
fingers because this we are at that
point where we hope that the code that
we wrote works and if it didn't it is
okay if it didn't work we are going to
work through it um we might get an error
we might not understand exactly what
that error is and we're going to work
through it but I am going to save this
and deploy it now I let's assume that I
gave this out I gave this out so now if
somebody hits this API here we go so
that's what it was before if we hit it
we should
see burritos we got it so it says look
at this beautiful burrito I texted that
in wow look at the the clarity of the
burrito oh my gosh you can see the rice
in the burrito Emoji that's impressive I
didn't know that look at that cat all
right so um in fact let's go let's go
hit it uh with our um let's hit that
same that same request I wrote before it
should be a little bit different now uh
it's coming across here and I want to
look at uh the response and the response
I'm going to go and I'm going to grab
this URL and make sure that uh it works
so the source right the source that came
back here is should be the picture of it
and if we look at it we should see my my
beautiful burrito oh look at this thing
I believe that burritos uh when they can
stand up by themselves uh that's a sign
of a good burrito look at that burrito I
got that in Arizona oh
man and what we did with this code is
actually pretty common now in an app
like the one that we're building
probably eventually what you're going to
do is you're going to store those photos
that were submitted into a database
right and you're going to do that from
this incoming message function you're
going to get it you're going to store it
if it's valid if it's it's a valid
picture you don't want to show pictures
that aren't you're going to store it in
a database and then you're going to
format it uh for whatever your client is
you're going to get that from a database
so maybe instead of coming back from
this API you're going to come from a
database API and you're going to pull
back uh your information and then you're
going to push it through and that
database is going to be in its own
format but you're going to make it match
whatever it is that you are trying to
push out there you're not GNA it's not
going to look exactly like the message
right I'm not going to send back uh one
of these messages and make my API look
like that I'm going to shape the data
that's what that's called I'm going to
shape my data in the way that I want it
to be used and we came with the spec
this is the shape of the data so we took
the data and we shaped it we formed it
into what uh was expected all these
burritos are making me hungry I think
I'm going to go fetch one from my
favorite takaria I'll make sure to snap
a pick you should get one too actually
you deserve it you deserve a burrito and
when we get back we'll look at how to
fetch this data that we just generated
in our client app so we've coded our
external public API and it's ready to be
consumed now our API uses an external
API twilio and we're going to need to
use our web framework views API to
retrieve the data and to do that we're
going to need to use the web API fetch
see apis are everywhere no wonder you
came looking for this course all right
let's make use of our server-based API
in our client side application all right
so just like I just consumed my burrito
we are going to consume that API that we
just created so if I scroll down here
remember we're passing in this Gallery
here um and we scroll down here into
this load images and this load images
gets kicked off uh from the API of uh
Vue right so Vue has these life cycle
apis and when the the thing's mounted
it's going to call this load images
we're going to come into load images and
now we have some to-dos that we have
already to done so we are going to use
the messaging API to use submitted
photos we did that we did that in our
API and then we are going to create a
web- based API that matches this
expected response we also did that
didn't we we did that so let's get rid
of that all right so here we go so this
got a suggestion here of what to start
uh doing here so I'm going to uncomment
this so uh we're going to create a new
uh response object and we are going to
await and we are going to use Fetch and
fetch here is part of the web API that
browsers must Implement um to do exactly
what we're trying to do right we want to
fetch data from our API now this happens
to be on the same server so we can use a
relative link like this/ API here um we
don't need to specify the server right
it's
assumed so uh our API we we called that
right we called it API SLP so SLP is
what we are going to hit there um and
you notice that it's using await because
this is an async function so fetch
returns a promise and it's going to
return that
response and uh that response has a a
method on it called Json um that will
actually return the Json representation
of whatever came back so what I'm going
to do is I'm going to get rid of this
Gallery this hardcoded gallery that is
gone and I am going to say await we are
going to await because this method is
also asynchronous response. Json so
that's going to get back uh whatever is
in this response that came back this
response has all sorts of uh metadata
about it but we just want to get the
data out of it and that's by using this
Json and because our API is Json enabled
it's just going to come
out all right let's deploy
it I cannot stop oops this says not
unable to deploy because I didn't save
it so I need to save it first I cannot
stop thinking about that bro it was so
good I submitted a selfie of myself and
I texted it to my twilio number and I
got a reply back from my twio trial
account right and it says uh thanks for
submitting it so if all goes well when
we look here I'll be able to show you
the burrito that I texted to my number
um so uh it's been deployed and I'm
going to come in here under this uh
assets and I'm going to copy this
URL and I am going to paste it here uh
and this View application is going to go
and it's going to hit my API and it's
going to bring back some photos into
this gallery and here it is look at the
size of this thing it was truly bigger
than my head so if we click that uh we
can go we can see my other uh beautiful
burrito uh there as
well now let's look again back here at
the client side of things and just take
a look at how beautiful this is it's
just two lines and it's hitting our apis
and that's the power of this API we were
able to hit an API and get User
submitted text messages text photos
right and it only took lines and really
it only took one line actually you know
like if we we could have like chained
some stuff on top of this awesome now
one thing that I do want to note is that
there's no authentication at all to this
API right I could I didn't uh Supply any
authentication information at all it's
open to everyone and that's kind of a
good thing if you are working on a
client side application you don't want
to pass your keys around like I would
not want to put my my twilio keys here
on this page because I don't know if you
know this but you can actually see
everything that that comes down so I'm
going to view the source of this and you
can see here's the source that we're
looking at and if I had used any sort of
API keys I would see them right here you
don't want to leak your keys that way
check the notes for more information on
how to get around this but typically
this is what you do is you write a
server that then the server keeps track
of all the keys and you connect to the
server but if you do need to provide
some authentication locally on the
client there are ways to do that check
the notes but look at this look at this
you did this you have designed a new
interface a text messaging interface
right A A A
TMI W I hope this wasn't TMI or also
known as too much information for you
you learned a whole lot about apis and
not just the web-based ones you saw them
in practice and you even built your own
one you really deserved that burrito
awesome job you've just built and
consumed your own API now here's my
question to you do you think that the
API I code that we wrote together should
be considered restful why don't we take
a look at our weathered scavenger hunt
card so it's definitely a client server
architecture our client happens to be in
this case A View application running in
the browser and our server is a
serverless node application but any
client could connect and use this
statelessness it's definitely stateless
right we aren't requiring any prior
knowledge about the
client cach ability H well at the moment
we aren't providing any caching
information though we could right we
could fairly easily pay attention to
those headers coming in and we could
respond appropriately it would require
us writing some additional code and
thinking through some of the edge cases
but we could do it let's put that in the
maybe column layered system yeah for
sure right in fact it's a little layered
already our API is calling another API
but our client doesn't need to know that
we could also add additional
functionality and the contract wouldn't
change code on demand we haven't even
talked about this one yet and it's the
only optional requirement basically this
means that your API returns code that is
runnable like maybe it returns an
embeddable widget or some actual
JavaScript code this doesn't make any
sense in our use case and that's totally
okay so we're going to drop this one
into the no column so we're looking good
so far but here comes the doozy uniform
interface so remember this one has four
subsections resource identification and
requests r r currently we're just
presenting all the messages as objects
and absolutely no way to identify them
so we fail this sub requirement and
therefore this is a no but let's keep
going through the rest of these pun
intended sorry resource manipulation
through representations we definitely do
not allow any sort of manipulation of
the images so this is another fail
self-descriptive messages we haven't
gone over this yet but by using headers
we can tell that this is Json the
message sent down has a type and it's
clear that that it should be Json
decoded to be used hyper media as the
engine of application State and last but
certainly not least hat Os or hate o
it's an often forgot about part of the
restful constraint and the idea here is
that there are links to show off what
more you could do with this and where
you could find related resources it
provides uis or links and we did see
this in both the Spotify and twio ones
however ours doesn't provide links to
other resources so we don't have a
restful API and that's okay it's going
to suit our needs it does look like we
could get there pretty quickly if we
wanted to one thing I want you to gain
from that exercise though is that you
now have the ability to identify whether
or not an API is restful and I hope that
felt pretty good we've now completed the
scavenger hunt we revealed all the
constraints and I hope most of those are
pretty clear please don't feel like you
need to memorize those you can find
those same constraints littered all over
the internet now as a prize for
finishing the constraint scavenger hunt
I've dropped links to my favorite rest
API constraint documentation for you to
lean on should you need to I've also
included links to the popular rest API
Frameworks that will help you design
restful apis make sure to check out the
notes you did it you just completed a
whirlwind introduction to apis and I
hope that you can see how much more
power they can add to your programming
journey by looking at interfaces in
general I hope you're more comfortable
with the idea of not fully understanding
exactly how something is working but
still leaning on that abstraction to
build your tools and applications do
this all the time with physical object
interfaces and apis or application
programming interfaces they aren't all
that different I hope you enjoyed taking
this course I know I had a lot of fun
making it if you think someone you know
might benefit from this course please
share it with them I'd love to hear your
feelings your thoughts your dreams so I
threw together a little something using
a smattering of apis to capture your
feedback if you've got the time I'd love
to have you answer a quick text based
survey text feedback to the number on
your screen well actually you know what
if you want you can also call and just
leave me a message too I use an API for
that too so please please please keep me
posted on your journey and really I
can't wait to see what you build thanks
again for hanging out and we'll see you
real soon
[Music]